       Modify account edit screen
       EditScreen1 allows users to edit or create account records. This screen includes an Edit
       Form control called EditForm1.
        ７ Note
        Since the edit form is one of the primary methods for creating or updating records,
        it should include every field that you want your users to be able to submit, and
        shouldn't include any fields that are read-only or the ones you don't want your
        users to modify.
       In this lesson, we'll add the same fields that we added earlier to the display form, plus
       the ability to attach files.
        1. In the tree view, expand EditScreen1.
        2. Select EditForm1.
        3. In the right-side properties panel, select Edit Fields.
        4. Select Add field.
        5. Select the following fields:
            Address 1: Country
            Address 1: State/Province
            Address 1: Street 1
            Address 1: ZIP/Postal Code
        6. You'll now see the selected fields in the field pane. Rearrange the fields by
          dragging and dropping them or by selecting ... (ellipsis) to the right of the field
          name, and selecting Move up or Move down.
        7. Arrange the field in the following order:
            Account Name
            Main Phone
            Address 1: Street 1
            Address 1: City
            Address 1: State/Province
            Address 1: Zip/Postal Code
            Address 1: Country/Region
       8. Select anywhere outside of the field pane to close the field pane.
       9. To minimize unnecessary scrolling in the app, we want the Edit Form to arrange
        the fields into two columns. In the properties pane on the right, select 2 in the
        Columns drop down.
       10. To make the form easier to read, we want to remove Address 1: part of the address
        field labels.
           In tree view, expand EditForm1.
           Select Address 1: City_DataCard2 control.
           In the properties pane on right, select Advanced.
           Select Unlock to change properties.
           Change DisplayName property to City.
           Follow the above steps to remove Address 1: from the Street 1,
           Country/Region, State/Province, and Zip/Postal Code fields.
      EditScreen1 should now look like the following:
       Save the app
       By saving the app, your app will become available to use and share with others.
        1. In Power Apps Studio, select File.
        2. In the Name field, enter Account Manager.
        3. Select an icon and background color from the Icon area. This will be used to
         identify your app in the app list.
        4. Select Save.
        5. Select Save in the lower right corner.
        6. Once app is saved, select the back arrow to return to the Power Apps Studio.
             Run the app
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Verify that you're in the environment you used to create the app by looking in the
                  upper-right corner of the screen. If different, select Environment and select the
                  appropriate environment.
                3. Select Apps.
                4. From the app list, select Account Manager.
                5. When the app loads, verify the changes made.
                       Search app list for Blue Yonder Airlines.
                       Select the Blue Yonder record and verify you see the fields added to the
                       Display form.
                       Select     to edit the record.
                       Verify form displays two columns of fields.
                       Verify that the field names don't display Address 1: in the labels.
                       Select Attach file in the Attachment area, select a file, and select Open.
                       Verify uploaded file appears in the attachment list.
                       Select      to save the record.
              Run your app on mobile
              To test your Power Apps on your mobile device:
                 1. Download  the app from your mobile app store.
                 2. Sign in using your work or school account.
                 3. Select your app from the list.
              See also
                    Create a canvas app from a template
                    Add and configure controls in canvas apps
                    Get started with formulas in canvas apps
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       How to create a canvas app with Power
       BI visual
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Microsoft Power BI is a powerful analysis and visualization tool. Power Apps is great at
       enabling people to take action on the web and mobile. Canvas apps created using
       Power Apps can be embedded in a Power BI report. Similarly, a Power BI report tile can
       be added to a canvas app. The best of both worlds can be achieved at the same place
       and same time.
       In this example, we'll create a quick Power BI report and a canvas app, and then see how
       we can add the report as a tile in the app.
       Watch this video to learn how to create a canvas app with Power BI visual:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=1624717a-18d6-4aba-ae5f-
       0d0503b2cccb&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
       apps%2Fhow-to%2Fbuild-powerbi-visual
       Prerequisites
       To complete this lesson, we'd need the ability to create Power BI dashboards and
       reports.
       Sign in to Power BI
       Sign in to Power BI with the same Office license as the one used for creating the Power
       Apps.
       Create a new workspace
         1. Select Workspaces from the left-pane.
       2. Select Create a workspace.
       3. Enter a name for the workspace, and then select Save.
        The workspace gets created
       4. Select + New, and add a dashboard.
       5. Add a name for the dashboard, then select Create.
        The Power BI dashboard gets created within the workspace we created
       6. Open the workspace, select + New, and then select Dataset to create a new
        dataset.
       7. Select Samples under "More ways to create your own content" to use sample data.
       8. Select Sales and Marketing sample. You can also select another sample of your
        choice.
       9. Select Connect to connect to the sample data.
        A dataset with the Sales and Marketing sample and a report gets added to the
        Workspace.
       10. From the left-pane, select the report that was created from the dataset, select ...
        (ellipsis), and select then select Pin to a dashboard.
       11. Select Existing dashboard, select the dashboard, and then select Pin live.
       The report gets added to the dashboard, and is ready for use in Power Apps.
       Create a new canvas app
        1. Start by creating a blank canvas app.
        2. Select Insert > Charts > Power BI tile.
         The Power BI Tile gets added to the screen.
                 3. Select the Workspace, dashboard and tile created earlier to add the Power BI tile to
                    the canvas app.
                 4. Save and publish the app.
              You've created a canvas app with Power BI tile.
              See also
                    Connect to Power BI from Power Apps
                    Power Apps visual for Power BI
                    Power BI tile control in Power Apps
                    Tutorial: Embed a Power Apps visual in a Power BI report
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
       Provide product feedback
            Create a canvas app that can trigger a
            Power Automate flow
            Article • 12/16/2022
            Power Automate can be used to create logic that performs one or more tasks when an
            event occurs in a canvas app. For example, a button can be configured so that, when a
            user selects it, an item is created in a list, an email, or meeting request is sent, a file is
            added to the cloud, or all of these. Any control in the app can be configured to start the
            flow, that continues to run even if you close the app.
            In this article, we'll learn how create and trigger a flow using canvas apps.
            Watch this video to learn how to create a canvas app that can trigger a flow:
            https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=97f1d303-9f0d-4817-9f9d-
            c899d023d9b1&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
            apps%2Fhow-to%2Ftrigger-flow
            Prerequisites
            To complete this lesson, you'll need Power Automate and Power Apps environment with
            a Dataverse database. If you don't have a license, you can sign up for the Power Apps
            Developer Plan or use Power Apps trial.
            Create a trial environment
            An environment in Power Apps is a space to store, manage, and share your
            organization’s business data, apps, chatbots, and flows. It also serves as a container to
            separate apps that might have different roles, security requirements, or target
            audiences. Each environment can have one Dataverse database.
            To make sure that you have what you need to complete this lesson, we're going to
            create a new environment that includes a Dataverse database. This is a 30-day trial that
            will go away at the end of the 30 days, but you can upgrade it to a sandbox or
            production environment if you want to keep it.
            We're going to create a trial environment that will include a Dataverse database, and the
            sample data used in this article.
               1. Go to Power Platform admin center  .
        2. Select Environments.
        3. Select New.
        4. Name the environment Dataverse Trial.
        5. Select Trial for environment type.
        6. Toggle Create Database to Yes.
        7. Select Next.
        8. Toggle Deploy Sample Apps and Data to Yes.
        9. Select Save.
       Your trial environment will now be created, including a Dataverse database and sample
       data.
       Create a canvas app
       In this lesson, we'll create an app to search, view, and create customer accounts using
       the Accounts table in Dataverse.
        1. Start by creating a blank canvas app.
        2. Select Create a gallery.
        3. Select Accounts table.
            4. Stretch the gallery to the bottom of the screen, and add a label to the top with the
              text Accounts. And then, update the other properties as listed below.
                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
               Property                  Value
               Font                      Open Sans
               Font size                 21
               Font weight               Bold
               Text alignment            Center
               Auto height               Off
               Line height               1.2
               Overflow                  Hidden
               Display mode              Edit
               Visible                   On
               Position (X, Y)           0, 0
               Size (Width, Height)      640, 71
               Padding                   5 Top, 5 Bottom, 5 Left, 5 Right
       5. Add an Add icon to the top-right of the screen by selecting Insert > Icon > Add.
        And then, update the properties of the icon to color white and padding of 5 from
        all sides.
       6. From the top-left side of the screen, select New screen > Form.
       7. Update the title of the form to New Account, and select the data source as
        Accounts from the pane on the right-side of the screen.
       8. Select Edit fields on the right-pane.
       9. Select Add field and add Email to the form.
        The email field gets added to the form.
       10. Set the default mode of the form to New.
       11. Select Screen1 that has the accounts gallery, and set the OnSelect property of the
        + icon to Navigate(Screen2).
       12. Select Insert > New screen > Blank screen to add a new screen to the app.
       13. Select Insert > Icon, and then select the Check (badge) icon to add it to the screen.
       14. Move the icon to the top center of the canvas.
       15. Add a label with text Account was created successfully!, and move it under the
        icon added in the earlier step.
       16. Add an additional label below the label added in the previous step with text Send
        a welcome note to the Customer?.
       17. Add a Text Input box by selecting Insert > Input > Text Input. Set the Mode of the
        control to Multiline, and default text to Thank you for creating an account with
        us. We look forward to serving you!. And move the control below the label added
        in the previous step.
       18. Set the OnVisible property of Screen3 to Reset(TextInput1).
        19. Add two buttons to the screen with text Yes and No, and place them below the
          input text box added in the previous step.
        20. Go to the New Account form screen, and set the OnVisible property of the screen
          to ResetForm(EditForm3).
        21. Select the check icon on the top-right, and set the OnSelect property to
          SubmitForm(EditForm3);Navigate(Screen3).
       22. Select the X button on the top-right, and set the OnSelect property to Back().
       23. Go back to Screen3 by selecting Screen3 in the tree view.
        24. Select the No button, and set the button's OnSelect property to
          Navigate(Screen1).
       25. Select the Yes button, on the app authoring menu select Power Automate.
       26. Select Create a new flow to create a new Power Automate flow.
       Create the Power Automate Flow
        1. On the Create your flow screen, from the list of instant templates, select Click a
         button in Power Apps to send an email.
        2. Enter a name for the flow as "Flow triggered by Power Apps", and select Power
         Apps as the trigger.
        3. Select Edit in advanced mode and then select, Continue.
         4. The To field and the Body field are automatically auto-populated with the
          following:
             To: Sendanemail(V2)_To.
             Body: Sendanemail(V2)_Body
         5. In Subject field, delete Sendanemail(V2)_To and enten Thank you for your
          business! in the Subject field.
         6. Select Save to save the flow.
       Trigger the flow from within the canvas app
         1. Select the Yes button > in the OnSelect property enter the two parameters for the
          To email address and the Body of the email as follows:
            Power Fx
            FlowtriggeredbyaPowerapp.Run(
               EditForm3.LastSubmit.Email,
               TextInput1.Text
            );
            Navigate(Screen1);
            ７ Note
            The email address is picked up from the new account record created on the
            previous screen. and the body for the email is picked from the text box text
            captured on this screen.
       Test the app
       Run the app in preview mode. In this test, we'll create a new account by entering details
       like account name, phone number, city, and email address on the New Account screen.
       On saving the new account details, we'll be prompted to send an email to the customer
       where we can update the verbiage of the email, and then select Yes to send the email.
       This will trigger the flow, and email will be sent to the email address on the account.
      An email like this should appear in your inbox
              See also
              Use Power Automate pane
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Create a canvas app with the barcode
       reader control
       Article • 03/13/2023
       The barcode reader control in Power Apps lets you use your phone or mobile device to
       scan barcodes from various formats.
       Some of the common uses of barcode reader control in a canvas app are:
          An app to check in items like books into a collection
          An inventory management app that uses barcode to identify items
          An employee app to check in and badge scanning for security
       In this article, we'll create a canvas app with barcode reader and display scanned items
       in a gallery.
       Watch this video to learn how to create an app with barcode reader:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=8714cb52-ce37-452c-bc47-
       1af24b1f6b93&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
       apps%2Fhow-to%2Fcreate-app-barcode-scanner
       Prerequisites
          Power Apps license
          Before you create an app from scratch, familiarize yourself with Power Apps basics
          by generating an app and then customizing that app's controls, gallery, forms, and
          cards.
          To create an app, you must be assigned to the Environment Maker security role.
       Open a blank app
       Create a blank canvas app.
       Add barcode scanner
         1. From the left-pane, select Screen1.
         2. From the left-pane, select + Insert > expand Media > select Barcode reader
          control.
         3. From the properties list on the right-side of the screen, select Advanced tab, and
          then select the OnScan property.
         4. Set the OnScan property of the Barcode scanner control to this expression by
          typing or pasting it in the formula bar.
            Power Fx
            Collect(
                colScannedItems,
                {ScannedItem: First(BarcodeReader1.Barcodes).Value, ScannedTime: 
            Now()}
            )
        5. From the Properties pane, set X property to "180" and the Y property to "1005".
       Add gallery
        1. Select + Insert > expand Layout > select Vertical gallery control.
         2. From the properties pane, select the layout for the gallery as Title and subtitle.
         3. Select the gallery control on canvas.
         4. Set the Items property of the gallery control to this expression by typing or pasting
          it in the formula bar.
            Power Fx
            colScannedItems
         5. In the left-pane, expand the Gallery1, and select Title2.
         6. Set the Text property of Title2 to the following expression.
            Power Fx
            ThisItem.ScannedItem
         7. Select Subtitle2 label, and set it's Text property to this expression.
                  Power Fx
                  ThisItem.ScannedTime
           Try the app
              1. To test the app, select Screen1, and then press F5 on the keyboard.
              2. After testing, save and publish the app.
              3. Download Power Apps Mobile   on your phone.
              4. Open the Power Apps app, and sign in.
              5. Select and open the barcode reader app.
         6. Select Scan, and scan any barcode label (for example, barcode label on a book).
       Final Results
       You'll see the scanned barcode information is saved inside the app.
              See also
              Barcode scanner control in Power Apps
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
            Create an app that uses mobile sensors
            Article • 12/16/2022
            Sensors enable you to add richer functionality into your apps by leveraging the
            capabilities of your phone. In this article, you'll learn about using sensors on your mobile
            device within Power Apps.
            To do this, you'll be making a sample app with two screens. The first screen will display
            the current compass heading, latitude, longitude, altitude, and can scan NFC tags to
            obtain text information. The second screen will showcase how to display accelerometer
            data to produce the angle of the device along the X and Y axes.
            To set up the scenario behind the first screen, imagine that you are building an app for
            an NFC-based scavenger hunt. Each participant will use the app to scan an NFC tag
            which will provide them with a compass heading, latitude, and longitude that will point
            them to their next destination. At that destination, the participant will then scan another
            tag and repeat the process until they reach the end of the hunt.
            For the second screen, imagine needing a tool to roughly measure angles. When on the
            second screen, the participant will be able to place or hold their device on a surface, and
            get the angles on the X and Y axis of the device as well as view a visual representation of
            those angles.
            Watch this video to learn how to build an app that uses mobile sensors:
            https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=01899fa6-7a02-4ed6-9ab1-
            4bc8b5bf17b9&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
            apps%2Fhow-to%2Fmobile-sensors
            Prerequisites
                Any level of Power Apps license can be used for this app, as no data connections
                are being used.
                A mobile device such as a mobile phone or tablet with GPS and accelerometer
                capabilities will be needed as most PCs might not have the necessary sensors.
                An NFC capable device    is needed for the NFC scanning feature. It's also assumed
                that the NFC tags to be scanned have been pre-configured to produce text values
                in the following example format:
                    "<b>Heading: </b> 80 degrees <br>
                    <b>Latitude: </b> 44.4604788 <br>
                    <b>Longitude: </b> -110.82813759"
                 This will provide the text in an HTML-friendly format for the app. The setup of the
                 NFC tags is beyond the scope of this article, and the NFC elements can be ignored
                 if needed; the primary focus is using the mobile sensors in Power Apps.
            Add header and HTML text for the device
            sensor outputs
            Header label
            With an app open for editing in Power Apps  , add a Text label to the screen by
            dragging and dropping it from the Insert pane. Position it at the top-left corner of the
            screen, and modify the following properties in the Properties pane:
                                                                                 ﾉ
                                                                                    Expand table
             Property                            Value
             Text                                "Scavenger Hunt"
             Font size                           24
             Font weight                         FontWeight.Semibold
             Text alignment                      Align.Center
             Width                               Parent.Width
            Then in the Advanced pane, modify the following properties:
                                                                                 ﾉ
                                                                                    Expand table
             Property                    Value
             Color                       RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
             Fill                        RGBA(56, 96, 178, 1)
            This will provide a header for the screen.
        HTML text for the device sensor outputs
        Next, add an HTML text control. This will be used to display all the device sensor
        outputs in one place. Use this code in the HtmlText property:
          Power Fx
          "<b><u>Current Location</u></b><br>  
          <br>
          <b>Compass Heading: </b>" & Round(Compass.Heading, 2) & Char(0176) &
          "<br>
          <br>
          <b>Lat: </b>" & Location.Latitude & "<br>
          <b>Long: </b>" & Location.Longitude & "<br>
          <b>Alt: </b>" & Round(Location.Altitude, 2) & " m"
        Change the following properties in the Advanced pane:
                                                      ﾉ
                                                        Expand table
         Property                    Value
         Size                        21
         BorderStyle                 BorderStyle.Solid
         BorderThickness             2
         Width                       560
         Height                      576
         PaddingTop                  16
         PaddingRight                16
         PaddingBottom               16
         PaddingLeft                 16
        If you examine what was put in the HtmlText, you may notice that there are two sensor
        types that are being used.
        First is the Compass sensor, which is using the Heading property to provide the
        compass heading from the device.
        Second is the Location sensor, which provides the Latitude, Longitude, and Altitude.
        There are two considerations about Location. First, if you use just Location without the
        dot operator and property, you'll get a record that has fields for Latitude, Longitude, and
          Altitude. Second, the Altitude property is in meters by default. If you would like to
          convert it to feet, replace the following formula:
          Use meters:
           Power Fx
            Round(Location.Altitude, 2) & " m"
          Use feet:
           Power Fx
            Round(Location.Altitude \* 3.2808, 2) & " ft"
           ７ Note
           Many sensor properties might not work correctly if you preview the app inside
           Power Apps Studio. To work with sensor properties for testing, prefer to use a
           mobile phone instead.
          Now position the HTML text control near the lower half of the screen.
          Add Button for the NFC scan and HTML text
          control
          NFC scan button
          Add a button to the app, positioning in below the HTML text control that you added in
          the last step, and change the following properties in the Advanced pane:
                                                                ﾉ
                                                                  Expand table
           Property       Value
           OnSelect       ClearCollect(colNFCScan, ReadNFC())
           Text           "Scan NFC Tag"
          The code in the OnSelect property is utilizing the ReadNFC() function, which activates
          the NFC reader. It then stores what is read from the NFC tag in a collection called
        colNFCScan. This collection will have four fields: RTD, Text, TNF, and URI. While a full
        explanation of these fields is beyond the scope of this article, some explanation may be
        helpful. TNF stands for Type Name Format and is used to define the structure of the
        Record Type Definition, or RTD, which in turn defines the type of record contained in
        the Text and/or URI fields. URI stands for Uniform Resource Identifier, which is
        essentially the address of a resource. For the NFC tags being used in this example, in
        addition to the Text field containing the example text from the introduction of this topic,
        they would contain a TNF value of 1, an RTD value of T, and a blank URI value.
        Add HTML text control to display the NFC scan
        information
        Add a second HTML text control and use the following formula in the HTMLText
        property:
          Power Fx
          "<b><u>Next Destination</u></b><br>
          <br>" &
          First(colNFCScan).Text
        Change the following properties in the Advanced pane:
                                                     ﾉ
                                                        Expand table
         Property                   Value
         Size                       21
         BorderStyle                BorderStyle.Solid
         BorderThickness            2
         Width                      560
         Height                     248
         PaddingTop                 16
         PaddingRight               16
         PaddingBottom              16
         PaddingLeft                16
       Without any NFC data present, the control will display Next Destination. When an NFC
       tag is scanned, it'll display Next Destination, and then the data from the Text field in the
       data collected from the scan.
       Assuming the data for the NFC tags has been configured as described in the
       introduction, the user will see the next compass heading, latitude, and longitude values
       for the next scavenger hunt location after scanning one of those tags.
       Test the app
       Save and publish the app. On a mobile device with the necessary sensors, open the app
       and observe the compass heading, latitude, longitude, and altitude values. Try walking
       around while turning in various directions to see changes in the various sensor readings.
      Press the Scan NFC Tag button to observe the NFC reader control. If you have an NFC
      tag that can produce a Text value, scan the tag to observe the text in the app. If not,
      select Cancel.
       Add and configure second screen
       Add a new Blank screen for the angle measurement portion of the app.
       After adding the screen, go back to the first screen and add a Next Arrow icon from +
       Insert > Icons > choose the Next Arrow icon. Position it in the top-right corner of the
       screen, and change the following properties in the Advanced pane:
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
        Property         Value
        OnSelect         Navigate(Screen2)
        Color            RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
       If you have renamed the second screen that was just added, substitute that name for
       Screen2 in the Navigate function.
       Preview the app, selecting the icon that was just added to verify that it navigates you to
       the blank screen that was just added.
       Add configuration for X and Y angles
       Add a Text label to the screen by dragging and dropping it from the Insert pane.
       Position it at the top-left corner of the screen and modify the following properties in the
       Properties pane:
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
        Property             Value
        Text                 "2 Axis Level"
        Font size            24
        Font weight          FontWeight.Semibold
        Text alignment       Align.Center
        Width                Parent.Width
       Then in the Advanced pane, modify the following properties:
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
        Property         Value
        Color            RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
        Fill             RGBA(56, 96, 178, 1)
       This will provide a header for the second screen.
       Next, add a Back Arrow icon from + Insert > Icons > choose the Back Arrow icon.
       Position it in the top-left corner of the screen and change the following properties in the
       Advanced pane:
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
        Property         Value
        OnSelect         Navigate(Screen1)
        Color            RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
       If you've renamed the first screen that was just added, substitute that name for Screen1
       in the Navigate function.
       Finally, add an HTML text control. This will be used to display all the device sensor
       outputs in one place. Use the following formula in the HTML Text property:
         Power Fx
         "<b><u>Angles:</u></b><br>
         <br>
         <table width='100%'>
         <tr>
         <td width='50%'><b>X: </b>" & Abs(Round(Acceleration.X * (90 / 9.81),
         0)) & Char(0176) & "</td>
         <td width='50%'><b>Y: </b>" & Abs(Round(Acceleration.Y * (90 / 9.81),
         0)) & Char(0176) & "</td>
         </tr>
         </table>"
       Change the following properties in the Advanced tab:
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
        Property                 Value
        Size                     21
        BorderStyle              BorderStyle.Solid
        BorderThickness          2
        Width                    560
        Height                   168
        PaddingTop               16
        PaddingRight             16
        PaddingBottom            16
        PaddingLeft              16
       Position this control near the top of the app screen.
       If you examine what was put in the HtmlText, you may notice that it is using the
       Acceleration sensor, with X and Y properties. There is also a Z property that we are not
       using in this scenario.
       This sensor detects gravitational forces on the device over three planes. Using a mobile
       phone as an example, imagine a line extending out of the sides of the phone. This
       would be the X plane. Lifting the right side of the phone will produce a positive value
       and lifting the left side will produce a negative value. A line extending out of the top
       and bottom of the phone would represent the Y plane. Lifting the top of the phone will
       produce a positive value and lifting the bottom will produce a negative value. Finally, a
         line coming out of the screen and back of the phone would represent the Z plane.
         Causing the screen to face upwards will produce a positive value and facing it
         downward will result in a negative value.
         The accelerometer will measure forces acting on the device both in motion, such as if
         you dropped the device, and at rest, such as tilting the device on one or more of the
         axes described earlier. At rest, the theoretical values should be between 0 and +/- 9.81
         m/s2, with 0 indicating that the relative axis is parallel to the Earth with no gravity acting
         on the sensor and a reading of 9.81 indicating that the relative axis is perpendicular to
         the Earth and the full force of gravity is acting on the sensor.
         Looking at the code in the HTML text control you just added, notice the following
         section:
           Power Fx
           Abs(Round(Acceleration.X * (90 / 9.81), 0))
         In this formula, from inside-out, first, the Acceleration on the X plane is being multiplied
         by (90 / 9.81). This is using the theoretical maximum at-rest value to convert the sensor
         reading into degrees. The value of 90 is present because at the maximum theoretical
         value, the device would be perpendicular to the Earth on that plane, giving a measure of
         90 degrees.
         That value in degrees is then rounded to zero decimal places to provide a whole
         number degree value. Last, the absolute value of that rounded number is calculated to
         give a positive reading. This is so it will not matter if the angle is measured from one
         side or another.
           ７ Note
           The values shared above are approximates, and don't represent exact
           measurement.
         Add the level visuals
         In this step, we're going to use some controls in unconventional ways to achieve a visual
         goal.
         Circular bubble level-like visual
             To begin, add a Button control to the screen, renaming it to btnCircleLevel and change
             the following properties in the Advanced pane:
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Property                                 Value
              Text                                     ""
              BorderColor                              RGBA(56, 96, 178, 1)
              FocusedBorderThickness                   2
              Fill                                     Transparent
              DisabledFill                             Self.Fill
              X                                        (Parent.Width - Self.Width) / 2
              Y                                        (Parent.Height - Self.Height) / 2
              Width                                    400
              Height                                   Self.Width
             The result of these changes should produce a circular button in the center of the screen
             that cannot be pressed due to being disabled.
             Next, add a Circle shape, set it's Border Radius to 400 and change the following
             properties in the Advanced pane:
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Property                 Value
              FocusedBorderThickness   0
              X                        (Parent.Width - Self.Width) / 2 + (Round(Acceleration.X / 9.81 * 90, 0) /
                                       90 * btnCircleLevel.Width / 2)
              Y                        (Parent.Height - Self.Height) / 2 - (Round(Acceleration.Y / 9.81 * 90, 0) /
                                       90 * btnCircleLevel.Width / 2)
              Width                    42
              Height                   Self.Width
              Width                    400
              Height                   Self.Width
         The X and Y properties allow the Circle shape to move about the center of the app
         screen, relative change in the Acceleration sensor values but contained within the
         circular area of btnCircleLevel.
         X and Y Axis bubble level-like visuals
         Add a Slider control to the app, rename it to sldXValue, and change the following
         properties in the Advanced pane:
                                                          ﾉ Expand table
          Property    Value
          Min         -90
          Max         90
          Default     Round(Acceleration.X * (90 / 9.81), 0)
          ValueFill   Self.RailFill
          X           (Parent.Width - Self.Width) / 2
          Y           btnCircleLevel.Y + btnCircleLevel.Height + 30
          Width       btnCircleLevel.Width
          Height      70
         This Slider control will display the angle similar to how a bubble level does: the Handle
         will move towards the raised side of the device, similar to the air bubble in a bubble
         level.
         Next, copy btnCircleLevel by selecting it, pressing Ctrl + C and then Ctrl + V. Rename
         the control to btnXValueOverlay and change the following properties in the Advanced
         pane:
                                                          ﾉ Expand table
          Property     Value
          X            sldXValue.X - sldXValue.HandleSize / 2
          Y            sldXValue.Y
          Width        sldXValue.Width + sldXValue.HandleSize
        Property   Value
        Height     sldXValue.Height
       These changes will position it over the sldXValue control, preventing the user from
       changing its value and providing a visual border.
       Copy and paste sldXValue, using the same method used to copy btnCircleLevel.
       Rename it to sldYValue and change the following properties:
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
        Property     Value
        Layout       Layout.Vertical
        X            btnCircleLevel.X - Self.Width - 30
        Y            (Parent.Height - Self.Height) / 2
        Width        sldXValue.Height
        Height       sldXValue.Width
       Copy and paste btnXValueOverlay, renaming it to btnYValueOverlay, changing the
       following properties:
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
        Property   Value
        X          sldYValue.X
        Y          sldYValue.Y - sldYValue.HandleSize / 2
        Width      sldYValue.Width
        Height     sldYValue.Height + sldYValue.HandleSize
       This completes the bubble level-like visuals.
       Test the level app
              Save and publish the app. On a mobile device with the necessary sensors, open the app
              and navigate to screen with the bubble level visuals. Tilt the device from left to right,
              then up and down, and finally in all directions, noting the changes in angle properties as
              well as the changes in the visuals. Find an angled surface to place the device on and
              again note the angles and visuals.
              See also
                    Acceleration, App, Compass, Connection, and Location signals in Power Apps
                    Mixed reality controls in Power Apps
                    Geospatial controls in Power Apps
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
            Create an app with 3D and mixed reality
            controls
            Article • 12/16/2022
            You can use the 3D object and View in MR controls to view items in 3D, or to see how a
            particular item might fit within a specified space.
            In this article, you'll learn how to use the 3D and mixed reality controls in Power Apps.
            Watch this video to learn how to build mobile apps with View in MR control:
            https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=7651a5f3-4886-4910-97b0-
            290116a9fa89&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
            apps%2Fhow-to%2Fbuild-view-in-mr-3d-apps
            Prerequisites
            See prerequisites for mixed-reality capable devices.
            Create an app with View in MR control
            The View in MR control creates a button in your app. When app users selects the
            button, it overlays a selected 3D model (in the .glb file format) or image (in .jpg or .png
            file formats) onto the live camera feed of the device.
               Tip
              You can also take photos and upload them to OneDrive.
            In this section, we will build a screen in an app that will allow a user to view the selected
            item in mixed reality using the View in MR control.
               1. Open an app in Power Apps Studio  .
               2. Select the OnStart property of the app, copy and paste the following:
                   Power Fx
                   ClearCollect(
                       col3dObjects,
                       {
                           ObjectName: "Forklift",
                   ObjectURL: 
           "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/forklift.glb"
               },
               {
                   ObjectName: "HVAC",
                   ObjectURL: 
           "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/hvac.glb"
               },
               {
                   ObjectName: "Machine",
                   ObjectURL: 
           "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/machine.glb"
               },
               {
                   ObjectName: "Pallet w/ Boxes",
                   ObjectURL: 
           "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/pallet_with_boxes.glb"
               },
               {
                   ObjectName: "Robot Arm",
                   ObjectURL: 
           "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/robot_arm.glb"
               }
           )
         This formula will create a collection containing the names and links of the 3D
         objects to be viewed in mixed reality.
        3. Add a Text label to the screen by dragging and dropping it from the Insert tab.
        4. Position the added text label at the top-left corner of the screen, and modify the
         following properties in the Properties tab:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property             Value
            Text                 "View In MR"
            Font size            24
            Font weight          FontWeight.Semibold
            Text alignment       Align.Center
            Width                640
          5. In the Advanced tab, modify the following properties for the text label:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property       Value
            Color          RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
            Fill           RGBA(56, 96, 178, 1)
           This change provides a header for the screen.
          6. Insert a Blank vertical gallery from the Layout section of the Insert tab.
          7. Position the gallery below the "View in MR" header you added earlier and expand
           it to use rest of the screen.
          8. Change the following properties of the gallery:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property                Value
            Data source             col3dObjects
            Template size           80
            X                       0
            Y                       92
            Width                   640
            Height                  1044
          9. Select Edit gallery to edit the gallery.
         10. Insert a Text label into the gallery.
         11. Change the following properties of the added text label:
                                                  ﾉ
                                                    Expand table
            Property        Value
            Text            ThisItem.ObjectName
            X               10
            Y               5
            Width           540
         12. Edit the gallery again.
         13. From the Mixed Reality section of the Insert tab, drag and drop the View in MR
           control into the gallery.
         14. Change the following properties of the View in MR control.
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
        Property      Value
        Text          "View In MR"
        Display type  Icon
        Source        ThisItem.ObjectURL
        X             Parent.TemplateWidth - Self.Width - 5
        Y             5
       Property    Value
       Width       70
       This change will provide a gallery that has a list of 3D objects and a button to press for
       the user to view those objects in mixed reality.
       Test the mixed reality control
       Now that all the controls have been added, save and publish the app. On a mixed-reality
       capable device, open the app, and press the button that corresponds with the object
       you would like to view. This will open the View in MR experience.
       Follow the on-screen instructions to calibrate the device by slowly moving it left and
       right while pointing the camera at a surface to be measured. Once the calibration is
       complete, you'll see an array of dots on the surface as well as a circle near the center of
       the screen. This circle shows where the 3D object can be placed initially. Once the cube
       has been placed it can be moved or rotated by using touch controls.
       To move the object, press on it and slide it to where you would like it to be placed. To
       rotate the object, press one finger to the screen then swipe with another finger right or
        left.
        Use the back button in the top left corner to return to the app screen and select another
        object. Repeat this process as desired to view each of the objects.
        Create an app with 3D object control
        The 3D object control allows you to view an item in 3D inside Power Apps. When app
        loads, it shows the 3D models (in the .glb file format) or image (in .jpg or .png file
        formats) inside the app through the control. You can select the 3D model to rotate,
        zoom in or out.
        In this section, we will build a screen in an app that will allow a user to view the selected
        items in 3D using the 3D object control.
          1. Follow the steps 1 and 2 from the Create an app with View in MR control section to
           create an app with the collection of 3D objects for the app.
          2. Add a Text label to the screen by dragging and dropping it from the Insert tab.
          3. Position the added text label at the top-left corner of the screen, and modify the
           following properties in the Properties tab:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property             Value
            Text                 "3D object"
            Font size            24
            Font weight          FontWeight.Semibold
            Text alignment       Align.Center
            Width                640
          4. In the Advanced tab, modify the following properties for the text label:
                                                  ﾉ
                                                    Expand table
            Property       Value
            Color          RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
            Fill           RGBA(56, 96, 178, 1)
           This change provides a header for the screen.
          5. Insert a Blank vertical gallery from the Layout section of the Insert tab.
          6. Position the gallery below the "View in MR" header you added earlier and expand
           it to use rest of the screen.
          7. Change the following properties of the gallery:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property                Value
            Data source             col3dObjects
            Template size           80
            X                       0
            Y                       92
            Width                   640
            Height                  1044
          8. Select Edit gallery to edit the gallery.
          9. Insert a Text label into the gallery.
         10. Change the following properties of the added text label:
                                                  ﾉ
                                                    Expand table
            Property        Value
            Text            ThisItem.ObjectName
            Width           640
          11. Edit the gallery again.
          12. From the Media section of the Insert tab, drag and drop the 3D object control into
            the gallery.
          13. Change the following properties of the View in MR control.
                                                        ﾉ
                                                           Expand table
         Property             Value
         Source               ThisItem.ObjectURL
         X                    18
         Y                    138
         Width                600
         Height               550
         This change will provide a gallery that has a list of 3D objects that you can view in 3D.
         Test the 3D control
         Now that all the controls have been added, save and publish the app. On a mixed-reality
         capable device, open the app, touch the screen to zoom in, zoom out, or turn the object
         being viewed in 3D.
              Since the gallery contains several objects in 3D, swipe down on the screen to see other
              objects and use the zoom or turn capabilities to work with the objects in 3D.
              See also
                    3D object control
                    Measuring Camera control
                    View shape in MR control
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
            Create an app to view a shape in mixed
            reality
            Article • 12/16/2022
            You can use the View Shape in MR control in your app to let users see if a simple cube
            might fit within a specified space. They might want to do this to see how a certain object
            that you provide would fit in their space. If you have a 3D model or a head-on picture
            for the object, you'd like to fit test consider using the View in MR instead.
            The control creates a button in your app. When app users select the button, it overlays a
            cube onto the live camera feed of the device. You set up the dimensions of the cube
            when you edit the control in Power Apps.
            Watch this video to learn how to build mobile apps with View Shape in MR control:
            https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=2b6080fd-8236-48a5-b9b2-
            48285eccdba6&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
            apps%2Fhow-to%2Fmobile-apps-view-shape-in-mr
            In this article, we'll create a screen in an app that will allow users to create a custom
            cube shape by inputting unit to be used (centimeters, feet, inches, or meters), and
            defining the height, width, and depth of the cube.
            Prerequisites
            See prerequisites for mixed-reality capable devices.
            Add controls for cube’s dimensions and units
            Add header and labels to define cube's dimensions and units to the app screen.
            Header label
            With an app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   , add a text label to the screen.
            Position it at the top-left corner of the screen and modify the following properties in the
            Properties tab:
                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
         Property                 Value
         Text                     "Place A Cube"
         Font size                24
         Font weight              FontWeight.Semibold
         Text alignment           Align.Center
         Width                    Parent.Width
        Then in the Advanced tab, modify the following properties:
                                                        ﾉ Expand table
         Property          Value
         Color             RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
         Fill              RGBA(56, 96, 178, 1)
        This change will provide a header for the screen.
        Labels and controls to specify cube properties
          1. Add four text labels to the screen. These labels will be used to identify the controls
            we'll add later. For each label, modify the Text property to one of the following:
                Unit Type
                Width
                Height
                Depth
          2. Set the Width property of these labels to 160 and position them so they're stacked
            vertically in the order described above, near the top of the screen and to the left
            side.
          3. Add a dropdown control and three text entry controls. The dropdown will be used
            to select a unit type for the cube dimensions and the three text entry controls will
            be used to enter the width, height, and depth of the cube.
          4. Select the drop-down, rename it to drpUnitType, and change the following
            properties:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property Value
            Items     ["Centimeters", "Feet", "Inches", "Meters"]
            Default   "Feet"
            Width     280
          5. Position the control to the right of the Unit Type label.
          6. Add three text input controls, and rename them to txtShapeHeight, txtShapeWidth,
           and txtShapeDepth. Change the following properties for all three controls:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property         Value
            Default           2
            Format            TextFormat.Number
            Width             144
          7. Position the text input control named txtShapeWidth to the right of the Width
           label. Likewise, position the controls named txtShapeHeight and txtShapeDepth to
           the right of the Height and Depth labels, respectively.
        Next, you'll add the View Shape in MR control and configure it to use the controls that
        were created to provide dynamic dimensions to the MR cube it'll generate.
        Insert the View Shape in MR control
        Insert the control into your app.
          1. Open the Insert tab.
          2. Expand Mixed Reality.
          3. Select the control View Shape in MR to place it in the center of the app screen, or
           drag and drop it to position it anywhere on the screen.
          4. Once the control has been added, position it near the bottom of the screen and
           change the following properties:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property        Value
            Text            "Place a cube"
            ShapeWidth      txtShapeWidth.Text
            ShapeHeight     txtShapeHeight.Text
            ShapeDepth      txtShapeDepth.Text
            Units           drpUnitType.Selected.Value
            Width           280
              Test the app
              Now that all the controls have been added, save and publish the app. On a mixed-reality
              capable device, open the app, and press the Place a cube button. This will open the
              View Shape in MR experience, allowing the user to define an area to be measured.
              Follow the on-screen instructions to calibrate the device by slowly moving it left and
              right while pointing the camera at a surface to be measured. Once the calibration is
              complete, you'll see an array of dots on the surface and a circle near the center of the
              screen. This circle shows where the cube can be placed initially. Once the cube has been
              placed, it can be moved or rotated by using touch controls.
              To move the cube, press on it and slide it to where you would like it to be placed. To
              rotate the cube, press one finger to the screen, and then swipe with another finger right
              or left.
              Use the back button in the top-left corner to return to the app screen and change one
              or more of the width, height, depth, or unit type settings. Select the Place a cube button
              and place the new cube.
              See also
                    3D object control
                    Measuring Camera control
                    View shape in MR control
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Create an app with address input and
       map controls
       Article • 12/16/2022
       There are many scenarios where users are expected to enter addresses in an app.
       Historically, there have been multiple fields capturing each element of an address where
       the user provides the street address, city and the postal code, and selects state. Entering
       addresses can be frustrating and error-prone, particularly in mobile scenarios.
       The address input control presents the user with dynamic address suggestions as they
       type. Using fuzzy matching logic, the control suggests multiple potential address
       matches from which the user can select—making it quicker and easier to enter accurate
       addresses.
       The control returns the address as structured data, allowing the application to extract
       information like city, street, municipality, and even latitude and longitude. The data is in
       a format friendly to many locales and international address formats.
       To use the control, you need to enable the Geospatial Services for the environment.
          Watch this video to learn how to use the address input control:
          https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=ff56e551-756f-4796-8af9-
          419b40b1dbfd&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
          apps%2Fhow-to%2Fmobile-apps-address-map
          Watch this video to learn how to use the map control:
          https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=c62bc98b-cf1f-4289-af11-
          82618c5e6d02&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
          apps%2Fhow-to%2Fmobile-apps-address-map
       In this article, we'll learn how to use the address input control in canvas apps.
       Prerequisites
       To complete this lesson, you'll need a Power Apps environment with a Microsoft
       Dataverse database. If you don't have a license, you can sign up for the Power Apps
       Developer Plan or use a Power Apps trial.
       Create a trial environment
            An environment in Power Apps is a space to store, manage, and share your
            organization’s business data, apps, chatbots, and flows. It also serves as a container to
            separate apps that might have different roles, security requirements, or target
            audiences.
            Each environment can have one Dataverse database.
            To make sure that you have what you need to complete this lesson, we're going to
            create a new environment that includes a Dataverse database. This is a 30-day trial that
            will go away at the end of the 30 days, but you can upgrade it to a sandbox or
            production environment if you want to keep it.
            We're going to create a trial environment that will include a Dataverse database, and the
            sample data used in this topic.
               1. Go to Power Platform admin center   in a web browser.
               2. Select Environments.
               3. Select New.
               4. Enter a name, for example "Dataverse Trial".
               5. Select Trial for the environment type.
               6. Toggle Create Database to Yes.
               7. Select Next.
         8. Toggle Deploy Sample Apps and Data to Yes.
         9. Select Save.
       Your trial environment will now be created, including a Dataverse database and sample
       data in Dataverse tables.
       Enable the Geospatial Services for the
       environment
       Before we can use the Geospatial Services in canvas apps, an admin must enable access
       to the features for the environment where we want to create the app.
       To learn about how to enable Geospatial services in your environment, see Enable the
       geospatial features for the environment.
       Build a canvas app
      We'll start with creating an app and then, we'll create a header control to use within the
      app to standardize the look and feel of the header on different screens.
       1. Create a blank canvas app in the environment you created earlier.
       2. Select Insert > New Screen > Scrollable to add a new screen.
       3. Change the label text to "New Account".
       4. Select Insert > Forms > Edit to add a form to the screen.
           The form control gets added
         5. Update the following properties of the form:
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
           Property                Value
           Data source             Accounts
            Property                Value
            Columns                 2
            DefaultMode             FormMode.New
          6. Select Edit next to fields to add more fields to the form, and select the following
           address fields:
              Address 1: Street 1
              Address 1: City
              Address 1: State
              Address 1: Zip/Postal Code
              Address 1: Country/Region
              Address 1: Latitude
              Address 1: Longitude
          7. Adjust the order of the fields as shown below.
       Address Input control
       In this section, we'll add the Address Input control to the app.
        1. Select Insert > Input > Address Input to add the control to the screen.
        2. Move the control to the top-right side of the screen.
             Configure properties for the Address Input control
             In this section, we'll review and if necessary, set various properties of the address
             control. There are a few Address Input control-specific properties.
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Property       Description
              Search result  The number of suggested addresses the control displays. We've set it to 5 in this
              limit          example, so not more than five addresses will show up in search.
              Search         Whether the control should suggest addresses within the user-defined Radius of
              within radius  the Latitude and Longitude. We've set it to Yes in this example.
              Property       Description
              Latitude       The latitude of the center point used to geo-bias address suggestions. Requires
                             Search within radius to be on. We've set it to the formula Location.Latitude in
                             this example to return the latitude of the current location.
              Longitude      The longitude of the center point used to geo-bias address suggestions. Requires
                             Search within radius to be on. We've set it to the formula Location.Longitude in
                             this example to return the latitude of the current location.
              Radius         The radius, in meters, around Latitude and Longitude to constrain the address
                             suggestions. Requires Search within radius to be On. We've set it to 100000 in
                             this example.
              Language       The language the address suggestions are returned in. We've left it with the
                             default - "English (United States)".
              Country set    Comma-separated list of countries/regions to constrain the address suggestions
                             to, in ISO 3166 alpha-2 country codes. Examples: "US", "FR", "KW". We've it as US
                             in this example.
             Configure output properties for the Address Input control
             The control outputs various properties when a user interacts with it inside an app. You
             can use these outputs in other controls or to customize the experience.
             The following table lists the output properties available.
                                                                                       ﾉ
                                                                                          Expand table
              Property                      Description
              UserInput                     Text the user has typed in the input box.
              SelectedLatitude              Latitude of the user-selected address in the input field.
              SelectedLongitude             Longitude of the user-selected address in the input field.
              SearchResultJson              The search result (based on the UserInput property), displayed as
                                            a string in JSON format.
              FreeformAddress               Selected address from the list of suggested addresses.
              LocalName                     An address control that represents the name of a geographic
                                            area or locality that groups multiple addressable objects for
                                            addressing purposes, without being an administrative unit.
              PostalCode                    Postal code.
              Property                     Description
              ExtendedPostalCode           Extended Postal Code.
              CountryCode                  Country code.
              Country                      Country.
              CountryCodeISO3              Country code in ISO alpha-3 format.
              CountrySubdivisionName       Country subdivision name.
              StreetName                   Street name.
              StreetNumber                 Street number.
              Municipality                 Municipality.
              MunicipalitySubdivision      Municipality subdivision.
              CountryTertiarySubdivision   Country tertiary subdivision.
              CountrySecondarySubdivision  Country secondary subdivision.
              CountrySubdivision           Country subdivision.
             When you run the app and start typing an address, it will show addresses that match the
             entered value and are located only within 100,000 meters of the current location. Also,
             notice that it doesn't show more than five address suggestions at a time when you start
             typing in the address.
               Using the above control, we'll capture the address in the address fields of the form to
               create a new account. This step is useful so that the user doesn't have to type in each of
               the address elements individually.
               We'll set the data card values to the appropriate property value from the address input.
                  Tip
                 The default values of the data card might be locked. To unlock them, select the data
                 card and go to the Advanced properties, and then select Unlock to change
                 properties.
                                                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                                                       Expand table
                Data card                             Value
                Address 1: Street 1                    AddressInput1.StreetNumber & " " &
                                                      AddressInput1.StreetName
                Address 1: City                        AddressInput1.Municipality
                Address 1: State/Province              AddressInput1.CountrySubdivision
                Address 1: Zip/Postal Code             AddressInput1.PostalCode
                Address 1: Country/Region              AddressInput1.Country
                Data card                            Value
                Datacard
                Address 1: Latitude                   AddressInput1.SelectedLatitude
                Address 1: Longitude                  AddressInput1.SelectedLongitude
              Example for Address 1: Street 1 data card:
              The form gets populated with all the address fields when an address is selected in the
              Address Input control.
              Map control
              In this section, we'll see how to add the Map control on the app to show the selected
              location on the map.
         1. Before adding the Map control, we need to create a collection to capture the
          address from the address input – this collection will be used as the data source for
          the map.
          On the OnAddressSelect property of the Address Input control, enter the
          following formula to create a collection that captures the address data.
            Power Fx
            ClearCollect(
                colSelectedAddress,
                {
                    Street: AddressInput1.StreetNumber & " " & 
            AddressInput1.StreetName,
                    City: AddressInput1.Municipality,
                    State: AddressInput1.CountrySubdivision,
                    Zip: AddressInput1.PostalCode,
                    Country: AddressInput1.Country,
                    Latitude: AddressInput1.SelectedLatitude,
                    Longitude: AddressInput1.SelectedLongitude
                }
            )
         2. Select an area outside of the Address Input control, and select Insert > Media >
          Map to add the map control to the screen.
       3. Select the collection as the data source.
       4. Move the map below the address input section.
              Configure properties for the Map control
              In this section, we'll review and if necessary, set various properties of the map control.
              The following table lists the properties available.
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
               Property                     Description
               Data source(Items)           Data source (table) that lists a predefined set of longitudes and
                                            latitudes to display as map pin on the map when it's loaded. Map
                                            each of the columns in your data by using the ItemAddresses,
                                            ItemLongitudes, ItemLatitudes, and ItemLabels.
               Use default location         Whether the map initializes at a default location set by the user.
               Default longitude            Longitude the map would go to when it's loaded if Use default
                                            location is enabled.
               Default latitude             Latitude the map would go to when it's loaded if Use default
                                            location is enabled.
               Default zoom level           Zoom level the map would be set to when it's loaded if Use default
                                            location is enabled.
               Show current location        Whether the map should display the current location of the user.
               Current location latitude    The latitude of the current location of the user if Show Current
                                            Location is enabled.
                Property                     Description
                Current location longitude   The longitude of the current location of the user if Show Current
                                             Location is enabled.
                Satellite view               Whether the style of the map is a satellite view or a road view.
                Cluster pins                 Whether the map pins are clustered.
                Zoom control                 Whether the zoom control appears on the map.
                Compass control              Whether the compass control appears on the map.
                Pitch control                Whether the pitch control appears on the map.
                Pin color                    The color of the pins.
                ItemsLabels                  A column in Items with the strings you want to use as labels for the
                                             pins.
                ItemsAddresses               A column in Items with the strings that represent the location of the
                                             pins.
                ItemsLongitudes              Name of the column in the table in your data source with floating-
                                             point numbers that represent the longitude position of the pins.
                ItemsLatitudes               Name of the column in the table in your data source with floating-
                                             point numbers that represent the latitude position of the pins.
                ItemsColors                  Color of the pins.
                ItemsIcons                   Icon of the pins.
                Items                        Name of the table in your data source that contains all the records
                                             that you want to plot in the map by using pins. Each row must have
                                             an entry for the label, longitude, and latitude for each row.
                OnMapClick                   How the map responds when any location is selected.
                OnSelect                     How the app responds when a map pin is selected.
                OnLoad                       How the app responds when the map finishes loading.
                OnItemsChange                How the app responds when the map pins change.
                Show info cards              Whether the informational cards appear on the pins of the map.
                Show shapes                  Whether the shapes in Shapes_Items appear on the map.
                Show shape labels            Whether the labels appear on the shapes of the map.
                Enable shape drawing         Whether the drawing tools control appears on the map.
               Property                    Description
               Enable shape deleting and   Whether shapes can be deleted and their labels can be edited on
               label editing               the map.
               Shapes_Items                Name of the table in your data source that contains all the records
                                           with the GeoJSON objects that you want to show in the map as
                                           shapes.
               ShapeGeoJSONObjects         Name of the column in the table in your data source with strings
                                           that represent the GeoJSON objects of the shapes.
               ShapeLabels                 A column in Shapes_Items with the strings you want to use as labels
                                           for the shapes.
               ShapeColors                 Color of the shapes.
               OnShapeSelected             How the app responds when a shape on the map is selected.
               OnShapeCreated              How the app responds when a shape on the map is created.
               OnShapeEdited               How the app responds when a shape on the map is edited.
               OnShapeDeleted              How the app responds when a shape on the map is deleted.
              Configure output properties for the Map control
              The Map control outputs various properties when a user interacts with it inside an app.
              You can use these outputs in other controls or to customize the experience.
              The following table lists the output properties available.
                                                                                           ﾉ
                                                                                               Expand table
               Property               Description
               CenterLocation         Center location of the map as either .Latitude or .Longitude. The
                                      output will be an integer. For example, calling
                                       Map1.CenterLocation.Latitude will output a single integer such as
                                      "47.60357".
               Selected               The selected pin on the map.
               SelectedItems          The selected pin or pins of the selected cluster on the map.
               GeocodedItems          The geo-coded locations of the pins on the map.
               ClickedLocation        The last clicked location on the map as either .Latitude or .Longitude.
              Property               Description
              Shapes_Selected        The record of the selected shape from Shapes_Items.
              Shapes_SelectedItems   The records of the selected overlapping shapes from Shapes_Items.
              SelectedShape          The selected shape on the map with .Perimeter and .Area.
              DeletedShape           The last deleted shape on the map with .Perimeter and .Area.
              GeoJSON                The list of shapes on the map in Feature Collection GeoJSON format.
             To drop a pin on the address entered in the address input, we'll use the collection we
             created on the OnAddressSelect property and use that in the map control.
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Property                         Value
              Items                            colSelectedAddress
              ItemsLatitudes                   colSelectedAddress.Latitude
              ItemsLongitude                   colSelectedAddress.Longitude
             Some of the properties of the pin can be customized per location pin are explained
             below:
                1. ItemsColors - To update the color of the pin to a different color for each location,
                   add a column to the collection Color: Red, and use that in the ItemsColors data
                   property of the Map control.
         2. ItemsLabels - To update the label of the pin to a different label showing the
          address for each location, add a column to the collection
          Label:AddressInput1.FreeformAddress, and use that in the ItemsLabels data
          property of the Map control.
         3. ItemsIcons - To change the icon of the pin for each location, add a column to the
          collection and use that in the ItemsIcons data property of the Map control. In this
          example, we'll add a triangle icon with the formula as Icon: triangle.
             Tip
            For the complete list of icons, go to List of image templates.
            Power Fx
            ClearCollect(
                colSelectedAddress,
                {
                    Street: AddressInput1.StreetNumber & " " & 
            AddressInput1.StreetName,
                    City: AddressInput1.Municipality,
                    State: AddressInput1.CountrySubdivision,
                    Zip: AddressInput1.PostalCode,
                    Country: AddressInput1.Country,
                    Latitude: AddressInput1.SelectedLatitude,
                    Longitude: AddressInput1.SelectedLongitude,
                    Label: AddressInput1.FreeformAddress,
                    Color: Red,
                    Icon: Triangle
                }
            );
       After adding these to the collection, go to the Advanced tab of the Map control, and
       update the ItemsColors, ItemsLabels and ItemsIcons properties.
      Run the app in preview mode to test. The map shows the location selected in the
      address input with a triangle icon and the address shows up as a label on the map.
              See also
              Interactive map control
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
            Create an app using the Measuring
            Camera control
            Article • 12/16/2022
            You can use the Measuring Camera control in your app to let users measure distance,
            area, and volume. During the measurement, you create two-dimensional and three-
            dimensional polygons that can be used to confirm how a certain-sized object would fit
            within a space.
            The control creates a button in your app. When app users select the button, it shows a
            live camera feed of the device. App users can then specify a starting point, and one or
            multiple sequential endpoints to measure between. The instances of measured
            segments are shown directly on the live camera feed.
            When the user exits the control, the measurements that were taken are captured in the
            Measurements property so they can be saved or stored.
            Screenshots taken during the mixed reality experience are stored in the Photos property
            for viewing within the app.
            In this article, we'll create a screen in an app to use the Measuring camera control to
            measure the area of a user-defined space as well as view a photo of the space that was
            measured.
            Watch this video to learn how to build mobile apps with Measuring Camera control:
            https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=94d7ae60-3cb4-41e5-80bd-
            d8212fa3e4a8&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
            apps%2Fhow-to%2Fbuild-apps-measure-in-mr
            Prerequisites
            See prerequisites for mixed-reality capable devices.
            Create the app with Measuring Camera control
               1. Open an app in Power Apps Studio  .
               2. Select the Insert tab.
               3. Expand Media.
         4. Select the Measuring camera control to insert it on the screen.
         5. Position the control near the bottom of the screen.
         6. Change the following properties for the control using the property pane on the
           right-side of the screen.
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
           Property                     Value
           Text                         Measure Area
           Unit of measurement          Feet
           Measurement type             Area
         7. Select the Advanced tab and change the OnMixedRealitySelect property to the
           following formula:
            Power Fx
            ClearCollect(colMRMeasurements, Self.Measurements);  
            ClearCollect(colMRPhotos, Self.Photos)  
           This formula will allow the user to define areas to be measured in square feet and
           store the most recent results of the measurements in a collection named
           colMRMeasurements, and the most recent photos in a collection named
           colMRPhotos.
          8. Add a text label to the screen and move it to the top-left corner of the screen.
          9. Change the following properties of the added text label:
                                                  ﾉ
                                                    Expand table
            Property           Value
            Text               Measure Area
            Font size          24
            Font weight        Semibold
            Text alignment     Center
            Width              Parent.Width
            Color              RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
            Fill               RGBA(56, 96, 178, 1)
           This label provides a header for the screen.
         10. Add an image control, and move it just below the header label.
         11. Change the following properties for the image control:
                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Property          Value
            Image              First(colMRPhotos).ImageURI
            Border Thickness  2
           The image control will display the first image taken from the Measuring camera
           control.
        12. Add another label to the screen, positioning it below the image control.
        13. Change the Text property of the label to the following formula:
            Power Fx
            "Area: " & If(IsEmpty(colMRMeasurements), "no area measured", 
            First(colMRMeasurements).Area & " sq. " & 
            First(colMRMeasurements).Unit)
          This label will display the first area measurement and unit type that is collected
          from the Measuring camera control. If there's no measurement to be returned, the
          text will show Area: no area measured to let the user know that no value is
          present.
       Test the app
          Tip
         Watch the video embedded at the top of this article to see how the app works.
