          Message: SEC7131 : Security of a sandboxed iframe is potentially compromised
          by allowing script and same origin access.
          Verify the source of the messages. If the source is Microsoft Dataverse or Dynamics
          365 Customer Engagement (on-premises), these events don’t pose a security
          threat and can be ignored.
       Data cached for offline viewing remains after
       the entity is no longer enabled for Dynamics
       365 for mobile
       In Dynamics 365 for mobile, record data is cached as the user visits the record so the
       user can access the data when going offline.
       This cached data persists after the entity is no longer enabled for Dynamics 365 for
       mobile (Settings > Customizations > Customize the System > [select an entity] > under
       Outlook & Mobile, deselect Dynamics 365 for tablets).
       To remove the cached data, the user must sign out of mobile app, or the app must be
       reconfigured or uninstalled.
       Customization changes don't appear in the
       mobile app
       Cause 1: The customizations (metadata) from Microsoft Dataverse or Dynamics 365
       Customer Engagement (on-premises) organization are cached on your device. The app
       checks for updated metadata after 24 hours or anytime you reopen the app. For
       customization changes to become available immediately, you must completely close
       and then reopen the app. If new metadata is found, you're prompted to download it. For
       more information on how to completely close an app, see the help for your operating
       system or reference one of the articles provided:
          Windows 10: How do I close an app?
          iPad: Force an app to close
          Android: How to force close Android apps
       Cause 2: You might be seeing a different form than the one you customized. If you have
       multiple forms for an entity, you see the first form in the form order that you have
       access to. This is different than the web application where you see the last form you
       used and have the ability to change between forms.
       Native Android or iOS links aren't supported
       The Dynamics 365 mobile app doesn't support universal links on iOS and Android app
       links on Android.
       Error message: in Android,
       AUTH_FAILED_INTUNE_POLICY_REQUIRED
       AADSTS53005: Application needs to enforce
       Intune protection policies
       Contact your administrator or help desk and make sure that your user is under Intune
       app protection policies.
       On your device, go to Settings > General > Accounts and remove any accounts that are
       connected with Microsoft 365.
       Error message: Access Denied. This app must
       be protected with an Intune policy before you
       can access company data
       Contact your administrator or help desk and verify that Intune app protection policies
       are applied for your user account.
       Admin instructions to resolve the issue
       If you're an admin, you can avoid users getting this error by making sure all mobile
       users have access to the sales dashboard:
         1. In the web app, go to Settings > Customizations > Customize the System.
         2. Select Dashboards.
         3. Select Sales Dashboard.
         4. Select Enable Security Roles.
        5. Select Display to everyone and then select OK. If you prefer to display only to
          select security roles, be sure to select your user’s security role.
        6. Select Publish.
        7. Have your user close and open the mobile app so your dashboard changes
          download.
       End-user instructions to resolve the issue
       You can choose a different dashboard and set it as your home
       page:
        1. From the mobile app, select the menu and then select Dashboards.
        2. On the command bar, select Select Dashboard and then select the dashboard you
          would like to use as your home page.
        3. On the command bar, select Set as Home.
       Or, you can create a personal dashboard through the web app:
        1. In the web app, go to Sales > Dashboards.
        2. Select New.
        3. Select Properties.
        4. Add the components you want on your dashboard and select Save.
        5. In the mobile app, follow the previous procedure to select your new dashboard
          and set it as your home page.
       Network requests fail when Power Apps mobile
       app is running in the background
       When the Power Apps mobile app is running in the background and a canvas or model-
       driven app makes a network request, a mobile operating system could deprioritize or
       cancel this network request. This can cause an error message to appear in the mobile
       app when it returns from the background.
       If you experience a failed network request when the Power Apps mobile app is running
       in the background, contact your app developer.
            App doesn't appear in the app list offline
            New and recently republished apps might not appear in the offline app list right away.
            To make your app appear in the app list offline, open the app on your device when it's
            online and keep it open for 1-2 minutes.
            Not able to zoom in to input elements in the
            app
            Pinch to zoom isn't supported by HTML input elements by default. More information on
            HTML input control default behavior: HTML Input element  .
            Issue still not resolved?
            If the information provided previously doesn’t resolve your issue, either Post your issue
            in the Power App Community     or Contact Technical Support .
            The following are some suggested details to provide:
                 What are the specific symptoms you encounter? For example, if you encounter an
                 error, what is the exact error message?
                 Does the issue only occur for users with certain Dynamics 365 security roles?
                 Does the issue only occur on certain devices but works correctly for the same user
                 on another device?
                 If you attempt to connect to a different Dynamics 365 organization that doesn't
                 include your customizations, does the same issue occur? If the issue only occurs
                 with your customizations, provide a copy of the customizations if possible.
                 Does the issue still occur after uninstalling the app and reinstalling it?
                 What type of device are you using, such as iPad 4th Generation, Microsoft Surface.
                 What is the version of the operating system, such as iOS 10.0 or Windows 10.
            See also
            Setup overview for mobile apps
            Power Pages known issues
            Power Automate known issues
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Prevent canvas app restarts in the Power
     Apps mobile app
     When you run a canvas app in the Power Apps mobile app, it can be restarted for the following
     reasons:
        The app is using too much total memory.
        The app is using too much memory or processing at one time.
        The app is moved to background – either when your specific app uses a native control
        (like Add Picture or Barcode Scanner) or the Power Apps mobile app is put in the
        background by the user.
     This memory and processing limitations, which is especially strict when the Power Apps mobile
     app runs in the background, is imposed by the operating system (Android or iOS). If the app
     uses more resources than are available on your device, the app will reset. This is similar to
     when you visit a large complex webpage, the web browser suspends the page if it's consuming
     too much power.
     On Android devices, this app restart can look like a crash because the app is closed and the
     user is taken to the home screen of the device.
     Use this article to learn how to prevent canvas app restarts on Power Apps mobile.
     Prevention tips for end users
     While the biggest improvements are made by app makers, here are some tips that end users
     can use to decrease the occurrence of app restarts:
        In the Power Apps mobile app, on the user profile page, select Clear cache to remove
        saved data. This should only be done when the end user has data as clearing the cache
        will remove any SaveData or app caches.
        On Android devices, ensure the Power Apps mobile app is prioritized. Refer to your device
        manual to keep the app running through the settings like battery optimization and app
        sleep configuration.
        Close any running apps, other than the Power Apps mobile app, and remove any
        unneeded data from the device such as unused apps or images.
        While it's cumbersome, consider using the app slower – pause slightly between screen
        navigation or after taking pictures or saving or loading data.
     Prevention tips for app makers
           The greatest memory improvements to decrease app restarts can be made by app makers.
           When creating an app, remember to optimize the app to run on the lowest-specification device
           that your end users will use and follow best practices around resource usage.
              ７ Note
              Since app restarts are caused by the operating system restricting the amount of memory
              and processing an app can do, it might take a combination of the mitigations suggested
              below to minimize app restarts. The more memory and processing that can be reduced,
              both in total and at one time, the less likely an app restart will be.
               Tip
              You can connect a mobile app session to Monitor to see where your app is doing heavy
              processing or memory-intensive operations. Monitor is a tool that offers makers a deep
              view of what an app does and how it does it by logging all key activities that occur in the
              app as it runs.
                                                                                                           ﾉ
                                                                                                                Expand table
             Problem                         Root Cause                              Mitigation
             App restarts when loading       If a specific screen is running too     Limit the number of controls on a
             a specific screen.              many formulas at one time, the          screen and the number of formulas
                                             app can have too much                   being run when the screen is loaded,
                                             processing and be restarted by          which might require splitting up
                                             the operating system.                   screens.
                                                                                     Avoid control dependency between
                                                                                     screens.
                                                                                     Prevent the user from taking action
                                                                                     during high-processing moments. For
                                                                                     example, when a large gallery with
                                                                                     multiple filters and lookups is loading.
                                                                                     Consider using named formulas.
                                                                                     Consider using the Delayed Load app
                                                                                     setting.
             App restarts after multiple     There are memory leaks                  Turn on the Keep recently visited
             screen navigation.              happening on the screens,               screens in memory app setting. While
                                             resulting in memory usage               this increases total memory usage in
            Problem                       Root Cause                           Mitigation
                                          building up as the user navigates    the short term as the screen is
                                          around the app.                      preserved in memory, across multiple
                                                                               screen navigation, it will prevent
                                                                               memory leaks.
            App restarts when             Offline scenarios that use           Use the new offline profiles feature to
            operating in offline mode     SaveData/LoadData or large data      manage offline data more efficiently.
            using the                     connections can consume              Avoid saving large media files locally.
            SaveData/LoadData             significant memory, especially       Optimize data sync strategies, and use
            method                        when media content is involved.      explicit column selection to reduce
                                                                               payload size. Turn off experimental
                                                                               features like record scope one-to-
                                                                               many relationships if you don't need
                                                                               them.
            App restarts when using       The camera control saves the         Don't save any images beyond the
            the camera control.           captured image to memory. This       most recently captured one.
                                          can increase the memory usage
                                          of the app, especially if the        Use Photo instead of Stream to only
                                          captured image is saved into         capture images when the user taps on
                                          variables or SaveData using the      the camera.
                                          OnStream property.
                                                                               If you need to use Stream, set the
                                                                               StreamRate property as high as
                                                                               possible to reduce the number of
                                                                               updates.
            App restarts when using       The Add Picture control saves the    Consider changing where the media
            the Add Picture control.      selected media content into          content is captured.
                                          memory. Due to the size of media
                                          content, this can result in          Consider turning off the
                                          significant memory pressure.         UseMobileCamera property so users
                                                                               can only select media from
                                                                               gallery/photo library.
                                                                               Consider using the attachment control
                                                                               (as part of a form) to only select files
                                                                               instead of capturing them using the
                                                                               camera.
                                                                               Consider switching to the camera
                                                                               control.
            App restarts when using       Native controls can put the app in   Make sure all memory and processing
            native controls like Add      the background where the             intensive operations are completed
            Picture, Barcode              operating system has stricter        before using these controls. For
            Scanner/Reader, View in       limitations on memory before         example, disable the Add Picture
                                          restarting the app.                  control until any SaveData operations
            Problem                       Root Cause                         Mitigation
            MR, Measuring camera,                                            are completed.
            and others.
                                                                             Consider switching to a different
                                                                             control like Camera instead of Add
                                                                             Picture.
            App restarts happen for a     Devices have different amounts of  Refer your users to the tips listed
            subset of devices.            memory and processing available.   before in our Prevention tips for end
                                          As an example, older devices are   users section.
                                          more prone to app restarts due to
                                          their lower available processing.  Consider investing in devices that
                                                                             meet the performance needs of your
                                          Having other apps running can      app.
                                          also reduce the amount of
                                          processing available. Similarly,
                                          other apps installed and lots of
                                          photos/media saved to the device
                                          can take up memory, reducing
                                          what is available for the app.
            App restarts continue to      Memory usage is affected by how    Optimize your app following the best
            happen.                       the canvas app is authored. Make   practices below.
                                          sure your app follows best
                                          practices can help ensure
                                          performance, reduce memory
                                          usage, and processing.
          Best practices for building performant apps
                Build large and complex apps
                Troubleshoot Power Apps canvas app performance issues
                Tips and best practices to improve performance of canvas apps
                Power Apps coding guidelines - Code optimization
           Last updated on 01/09/2026
         Install Power Apps for Windows
         Install Power Apps for Windows to run model-driven app or canvas app on your Windows
         device. For more information on Power Apps, see What is Power Apps.
         Install the app
            1. Go to the Microsoft Store and install Power Apps    for Windows.
            2. When the app is installed, open it and sign in.
            ） Important
            If you run into issues during the installation or the app closes without warning, follow the
            steps in the next section to install the latest version of WebView2 Runtime, and retry
            installing Power Apps for Windows.
         Webview2 Runtime
         If you get an Update Microsoft Edge error message when you're installing Power Apps for
         Windows, this means you don't have WebView2 Runtime on your device.
         Power Apps for Windows also won't run correctly if you have an older version of WebView2.
         Follow these steps to see which version you have installed:
             1. On your device, go to Settings > Apps > Apps & features.
             2. Search for WebView. You need version 99.0 or later installed to run Power Apps for
               Windows.
          In both cases, whether you get an error message or have an older version installed, you need
          to install WebView2 Runtime.
          You need administrator rights on your device to install WebView2. If you don't have admin
          rights, ask your administrator to install it for you.
             1. Download the WebView2 Runtime.
             2. Select version 99.0 or later. Installing an earlier version may cause Power Apps to crash.
               Under Evergreen Bootstrapper, select Download.
             3. Go over the license terms and privacy statement and then select Accept and Download.
             4. Run MicroEdgeWebview2Setup.exe.
          Install from app center
          If you don't have access to install Power Apps for Windows from the Microsoft Store then you
          can install it from the app center  .
          An administrator can also download the package from the app center          and distribute it to
          users with Intune.
           Last updated on 01/08/2026
       Use Power Apps for Windows
       Article • 10/25/2023
       This topic covers how to sign in and run your apps on Power Apps for Windows.
       Sign in
       Sign into Power Apps for Windows quickly using your work email address. If you need
       help with your sign-in information, contact your Power Apps administrator.
         1. On the Welcome screen, select Sign in.
           ７ Note
         You also have the option to sign in as a guest user and choose a different
         region. 
       2. Enter your email address, and then select Next. Then enter your password and
        then select Sign in.
       3. From the list of apps that you have access to, select the app that you want to use.
       See non-production apps
       By default, only production model-driven apps are shown in the list of apps.
       To see model-driven apps from non-production environments, select the More button
       (...) > Settings and then turn on Show non-production apps.
       Move between apps
       When you're using an app, you can select the back button to go back to the Apps
       screen. From the Apps screen, you can then select another app to use.
       For model-driven apps, you can also select the name of the current app that you're
       using to go back to the Apps screen.
       Switch to another canvas app
        1. Select the back button.
        2. On the Apps screen select an app. You'll only see apps for your organization.
       Switch to another model-driven app
        1. Select the back button or select the current app name.
        2. On the Apps screen select an app. You'll only see apps for your organization.
       Run an app
       Because canvas apps can essentially be anything, there isn't much help documentation
       on how to use an app once it's created. If you need help using a canvas app, contact
       your app maker or Power Apps admin.
       You'll find below the documentation on how to run model-driven apps on Power Apps
       for Windows.
       Navigation in model-driven apps
       It's easy to get around and get back to your favorite or most-used rows. The following
       illustration shows the primary navigation elements for a model-driven app.
      Legend:
       1. Click to change app: Select the current app name to change to a different app.
       2. Collapse/expand site map: Select this to collapse the navigator to allow more
        room for the main part of the page. If the navigator is already collapsed, select this
        button to expand it again.
       3. Recent: Expand this entry to view a list of rows you were recently using. Select a
        row here to open it. Select the push-pin icon next to a row listed here to add it to
        your pinned rows.
       4. Pinned: Expand this entry to view and open your favorite pinned rows. Use
        the Recent list to add rows here. Select the remove-pin icon next to a row listed
        here to remove it from this list.
       5. Page navigation: This area lists each table and dashboard page available for the
        current work area. Select any entry here to open the named dashboard or list view
        for that table.
       6. Create new row: Select New to create a new row.
       7. Setting: Access your setting such as personalization setting and information about
        the app.
       8. User Information: See the current user that's signed in, sign out of the app, or
        reconfigure the app**.**
                9. Go back: Use the back button for form, view, and dashboard pages on the
                   command bar to go back to the previous page.
             Create and edit rows
             The New button or Quick create makes it fast and easy to enter almost any type of
             information into the system. The command is on the navigation bar, so it's available
             whenever you need to enter new information into the system. You can also save a row
             and create a new one directly from the Quick create form.
             Note, the Quick create option is only available for rows that are enabled by your admin.
                1. On the navigation bar, select the plus sign    , and then select the item you want.
                2. Fill in the columns, and then select Save and Close. Or, to save and create another
                   row, select the down arrow and then select Save & Create New
      Create a new row using the New button
       1. From the left navigation pane, select a table such as Products and then select New.
       2. Fill in the columns and then on the command bar, select Save or Save & Close.
      Edit a row
       1. From the left navigation pane, select a table such as Products.
       2. Select a row to open it.
       3. Make your edits and when you're done editing, select Save or Save & Close.
       Use search
       With Dataverse search, the search box is always available at the top of every page in
       your app. You can start a new search and quickly find the information that you're
       looking for. For more information, see Search for tables and rows by using Dataverse
       search.
       Notifications
       Notifications on Power Apps for Windows work the same as when you run a model-
       driven app on the web. For more information, see In-app notifications in model-driven
       apps.
       Set up mobile offline
       To configure your app in offline mode, see:
          For canvas apps: Develop offline-capable canvas app
          For model-driven apps: Set up mobile offline
       Session ID
       To get the session ID, select the More button (...) > Settings and then copy the session
       ID.
        Log files
        Open the following directory on your device to find the log files related to the Windows
        session for Power Apps for Windows:
        %LocalAppData%\Packages\MicrosoftCorporationII.PowerAppsforWindows10_8wekyb3d8bbwe\
        LocalState
        The Power Apps support team can use the log files to investigate issues.
        Deep links
        For more information on deep links, see Use deep links with Power Apps mobile.
        Limitations and known issues
           The following is not supported:
            Advanced controls such as sensors.
            Pinning an app on Windows desktop
            Mixed reality controls
            NFC function
           You can't see favorites, recent, featured apps, or the app details.
           A user picture isn’t displayed in the app list.
           The Optimize images for Upload option is not available on Windows.
           The barcode scanner doesn’t support BarcodeType, PreferFrontCamera, and
           FlashlightEnabled properties. For more information, see Barcode scanner control
           in Power Apps - Power Apps. The barcode scanner does support symbologies.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Microsoft Dataverse documentation
     Securely store and manage data that's used by Power Apps business applications.
      Get started
        OVERVIEW
      ｅ
      What is Dataverse?
      Why choose Dataverse?
      Improve Copilot responses
        TRAINING
      ｄ
      Introduction to Dataverse
      Define data
        CONCEPT
      ｐ
      Tables and metadata
      Types of tables
      Table relationships
      Columns
      Choices
      Customize
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Create an app
      Create a custom table
      Create a relationship between tables
      Create and edit columns
      Create a choice
      Apply business logic
        OVERVIEW
      ｅ
      Business rules
      Plug-ins
      Real-time workflows
      Actions
      More >
      Get insights from your data
        CONCEPT
      ｐ
      Overview
      Transition to Dataverse insights
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
      Link to Microsoft Fabric
      Quick view and Power BI integration
      Integrate with external data
        CONCEPT
      ｐ
      Import or export data
      Self-service data prep with dataflows
      Use SharePoint, OneNote, and OneDrive
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Create virtual tables to connect to other data sources
      Use solutions for ALM
        OVERVIEW
      ｅ
      What are solutions?
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Create a solution
      Export solutions
      Validate solutions
      More >
      For developers
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Work with data using code
      Apply business logic using code
      Work with metadata using code
      More >
     What is Microsoft Dataverse?
     Dataverse lets you securely store and manage data that's used by business applications. Data
     within Dataverse is stored within a set of tables. A table is a set of rows (formerly referred to as
     records) and columns (formerly referred to as fields/attributes). Each column in the table is
     designed to store a certain type of data, for example, name, age, salary, and so on. Dataverse
     includes a base set of standard tables that cover typical scenarios, but you can also create
     custom tables specific to your organization and populate them with data by using Power
     Query. App makers can then use Power Apps to build rich applications that use this data.
     For information about purchasing a plan to use Dataverse, go to Pricing info.
     Why use Dataverse?
     Standard and custom tables within Dataverse provide a secure and cloud-based storage option
     for your data. Tables let you create a business-focused definition of your organization's data for
     use within apps. If you're not sure whether tables are your best option, consider these benefits:
       Easy to manage – Both the metadata and data are stored in the cloud. You don't need to
       worry about the details of how they're stored.
       Easy to secure – Data is securely stored so that users can see it only if you grant them
       access. Role-based security allows you to control access to tables for different users
       within your organization.
       Access your Dynamics 365 Data – Data from your Dynamics 365 applications is also
       stored within Dataverse, allowing you to quickly build apps that use your Dynamics 365
                 data and extend your apps with Power Apps.
                 Rich metadata – Data types and relationships are used directly within Power Apps.
                 Logic and validation – Define calculated columns, business rules, workflows, and business
                 process flows to ensure data quality and drive business processes.
                 Productivity tools – Tables are available within the add-ins for Microsoft Excel to increase
                 productivity and ensure data accessibility.
           More information: Why choose Dataverse?
           Terminology updates
           Responding to customer feedback and data from user research, effective November 2020 we're
           updating some terminology in Dataverse to be more intuitive and make its usage more
           productive. The terminology updates are listed below, and we're in the process of rolling them
           out across Microsoft Power Platform.
                                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
            Legacy term                                                               Current term
            Entity, entities                                                          Table, tables
            Field, fields                                                             Column, columns
            Attribute, attributes
            Record, records                                                           Row, rows
            Option set, multi select option sets                                      Choice, choices
            Picklist, picklists
            Two Options                                                               Yes/No
              ７ Note
              These terminology updates aren’t applicable to any APIs or messages in the Dataverse
              web services. For example, the names of the messages CreateEntityRequest and
              CreateAttributeRequest won't change.
           Dynamics 365 and Dataverse
           Dynamics 365 applications—such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365 Customer Service, or
           Dynamics 365 Human Resources—also use Dataverse to store and secure the data they use.
     This enables you to build apps by using Power Apps and Dataverse directly against your core
     business data, which is already used within Dynamics 365, without the need for integration.
        Build apps against your Dynamics 365 data – Build apps quickly against your business
        data within Power Apps or by using the extensible platform that lets pro developers
        programmatically interact with data and metadata, apply business logic, create custom
        connectors, and integrate with external data.
        Manage reusable business logic and rules – Business rules and logic already defined in
        your Dataverse tables are applied to apps created with Power Apps to ensure data
        consistency, regardless of how your users access the data or which app they use.
        Reusable skills across Dynamics 365 and Power Apps – Users who are skilled in Power
        Apps or Dynamics 365 can now take advantage of those skills across the Dataverse
        platform. Creating tables, forms, and charts are now common tasks you perform across
        your applications.
         ７ Note
         Finance and Operations apps currently require the configuration of the Data
         Integrator to make your business data from Finance and Operations apps available
         in Dataverse.
     Integrating data into Dataverse
     Building an app typically involves data from more than one source. Although this can
     sometimes be done at the application level, there are cases where integrating this data into a
     common store allows for an easier app-building experience and a single set of logic to
     maintain and operate over the data. Dataverse allows data to be integrated from multiple
     sources into a single store, which can then be used in Power Apps, Power Automate, and Power
     BI along with data that's already available from the Dynamics 365 applications.
        Scheduled integration with other systems – Data that's kept within another application
        can be regularly synchronized with Dataverse to allow you to take advantage of data from
        other applications in Power Apps.
        Transform and import data using Power Query – Transforming data when importing into
        Dataverse can be done through Power Query—a tool commonly used across Excel and
        Power BI—from many online data sources.
        One-time import of data – Simple import and export of Excel and CSV files can be used
        for a one-time (or infrequent) import of data into Dataverse.
     For more information about integrating data into the Dataverse, go to Add data to a table in
     Dataverse by using Power Query.
     Interacting with tables
     When you develop an app, you can use standard tables, custom tables, or both. Dataverse
     provides standard tables by default. These are designed, in accordance with best practices, to
     capture the most common concepts and scenarios within an organization.
     For a full list of tables, see the entity reference.
     You can extend the functionality of standard tables by creating one or more custom tables to
     store information that's unique to your organization. More information: How to create a
     custom table
     Logic and validation
     Tables within Dataverse can take advantage of rich server-side logic and validation to ensure
     data quality and reduce repetitive code in each app that creates and uses data within a table.
        Business rules validate data across multiple columns and tables, and provide warning and
        error messages, regardless of the app used to create the data. More information: Create a
        business rule
        Business process flows guide users to ensure they enter data consistently and follow the
        same steps every time. Business process flows are currently only supported for model-
        driven apps. More information: Business process flows overview
        Workflows allow you to automate business processes without user interaction. More
        information: Workflows overview
        Business logic with code supports advanced developer scenarios to extend the
        application directly through code. More information: Apply business logic with code
     Security
     Dataverse has a rich security model to protect the data integrity and privacy of users while
     promoting efficient data access and collaboration. You can combine business units, role-based
     security, row-based security, and column-based security to define the overall access to
     information that users have in a Power Platform environment. More information: Security in
     Dataverse in the Power Platform admin guide
         Developer capabilities
         In addition to the features available through the Power Apps   portal, Dataverse includes
         features for developers to programmatically access metadata and data to create tables and
         business logic, in addition to interacting with data. More information: Dataverse Developer
         Overview
         Next steps
         To get started using Dataverse:
              Create a canvas app using a Dataverse database.
              Create a custom table and then create a canvas app that uses the table.
              Create a model-driven app built on Dataverse.
              Use Power Query to connect to an online or on-premises data source and import the data
              directly into Dataverse.
         See also
         Dataverse for Teams
          Last updated on 03/31/2026
     Why choose Microsoft Dataverse?
     Data is at the center of everything a business does today and powers the insights that can drive
     what it should do tomorrow. To thrive and grow, businesses need to capture, analyze, predict,
     present, and report data and do it all with a high level of agility.
     Building out the data infrastructure to enable business insight can be both time consuming and
     expensive. The data originates from a variety of devices, applications, systems, services, and
     software as a service (SaaS). This large and growing number of sources often consists of multiple
     data technologies that store different types of data, expose different APIs, and use a mixture of
     security models. The developers needed to create these technologies can be expensive and hard
     to find. Developers often must have a deep understanding of how to deploy, configure, manage,
     and integrate these different data technologies.
     Dataverse addresses these concerns with an easy to use, easy to manage, compliant, secure,
     scalable, and globally available SaaS data service. Dataverse empowers organizations to work
     with any type of data and any type of app, and use the data within it to gain insights and drive
     business action.
     As part of Microsoft Power Platform, Dataverse requires no or little code to be written, so it can
     easily be used by everyone from knowledge workers to professional developers.
     Knowing that it's built on Azure, organizations choosing Dataverse can be confident that it's
     globally available, compliant, scalable, and secure.
     Work with any type of data
     Dataverse is designed to work with any type of data and incorporates all the major categories of
     data technologies that your organization needs—relational, non-relational, file, image, search,
     and data lake.
     Dataverse includes a set of visual designers to create, edit, and interact with data. This makes it
     easy to quickly define the tables, relationships, business rules, forms, and workflows that
     represent your business.
     With the easy-to-configure integration features built into Dataverse, deep integration with
     Microsoft's cloud services such as Azure, Dynamics 365, and Microsoft 365—plus access to many
     connectors in Power Automate and Azure Logic Apps—Dataverse can connect to the devices,
     apps, systems, services, and popular SaaS offerings that contain the data for your business.
     As a result, a wide range of enterprise integration scenarios—from retrieving data sent in a
     spreadsheet as an email attachment to emerging scenarios like using Dataverse data in a
     blockchain network—can be achieved with ease and with little to no code required. Integration
     efforts that previously were measured in days and weeks can now often be measured in hours
     and minutes.
     In addition to providing the ability to create data or import it from other systems, Dataverse also
     supports virtual tables. Virtual tables map data in an external data source so that it appears to
     exist in Dataverse. This enables Dataverse to execute real-time data operations against the
     external data source. More information: Create and edit virtual tables that contain data from an
     external data source
     Work with any type of app
     When an organization wants to create a new app, it can realize additional productivity gains by
     using Dataverse with Power Apps. Power Apps understands the rich metadata included in
     Dataverse and uses it in multiple ways to help you rapidly build great-looking apps that are
     secure and scalable, and make them available across desktop, web, mobile, and Microsoft Teams.
     Organizations that use Power Apps can quickly develop mobile apps for iOS and Android. You
     can also take advantage of Dataverse mobile offline functionality, which enables apps to collect,
     query, and interact with data when offline.
     For organizations that want to integrate Dataverse data into existing apps or write new apps by
     using custom code, Dataverse provides a powerful REST-based API, a developer SDK, and a
     growing list of samples for common scenarios.
     You can also use Dataverse in bot-based apps that deliver intuitive, interactive dialogues with
     employees, partners, and customers. Whether they're embedded within Power Apps or custom
     code, bots can be built quickly by using Microsoft Copilot Studio and powered by Dataverse data.
     The goal of Dataverse working with any app means it should also work with the tools that
     knowledge workers and professional developers use. To help them be even more productive,
     Dataverse is integrated into popular tools such as Excel, Outlook, Dynamics 365 customer
     engagement apps, Power BI Desktop, Power Query, Azure Data Factory, Data Export Service, and
     SQL Server Management Studio. More information: Work with any type of app
     Analytics and reporting
     Dataverse can be used to gain insights and drive business action using analytics and reporting.
     Dataverse also includes a variety of ways to deliver data and insight to key decision makers.
     Dataverse includes the ability to create lightweight charts and paginated reports. The data in
     Dataverse can also be used with Power BI to create rich, interactive reports and dashboards.
     For organizations that are interested in employing AI to analyze their data, AI Builder can give
     everyone in the organization—regardless of their technical expertise—the ability to add AI
     capabilities to the business process flows they create and use. Delivered as part of Microsoft
     Power Platform, AI Builder includes six pre-built AI models that can be used in Power Automate
     and Power Apps, and to evaluate data within Dataverse.
     To support advanced analytics and machine learning, Dataverse includes a managed data lake.
     Data within the lake can be used to run Power BI reporting, machine learning, data warehousing,
     and other downstream data processing.
        One of the benefits of the data being in Azure Data Lake is that organizations can take advantage
        of Azure Synapse Analytics. This service can deliver added productivity by bringing together
        enterprise data warehousing, data exploration, code-free data orchestration, deeply integrated
        Apache Spark and SQL engines, and integrated AI and BI.
        Security
        Dataverse uses Microsoft Entra identity and access management mechanisms to help ensure that
        only authorized users can access the environment, data, and reports.
        Dataverse uses role-based security to group together a collection of privileges. These security
        roles can be associated directly with users, or they can be associated with Dataverse teams and
        business units.
        In Dataverse, you can share individual rows on a one-by-one basis with another user. Because
        row-level control of access isn't adequate for some business scenarios, Dataverse has a column-
        level security feature to allow more granular control of security at the column level.
        Dataverse also includes two security models that can be used for hierarchies: the manager
        hierarchy and the position hierarchy. With the manager hierarchy, a manager must be within the
        same business unit as the report, or in the parent business unit of the report's business unit, to
        have access to the report's data. The position hierarchy allows data access across business units.
        Because Dataverse is built on Azure, it benefits from the Azure platform's powerful security
        technologies. Encryption of data, at rest and in transit, preserves confidentiality.
        Dataverse is governed by the Microsoft Online Services Terms   and the Microsoft Privacy
        Statement   .
        More information: Security concepts in Dataverse
        Compliance
        Compliance is a key concern for organizations. Microsoft regularly engages with dozens of
        regulators around the world, so organizations can be assured that the data placed in Dataverse is
        held in accordance with stringent industry safeguards. Dataverse complies with numerous
        standards, and compliance is verified by third-party audits and certifications.
        The list of currently supported standards can be found at the Microsoft Trust Center website  .
        Availability and scalability
        Dataverse is designed to meet enterprise-level scalability needs and offers a service level
        agreement of 99.9% uptime.
        To help ensure service levels, availability, and quality, entitlement limits to the number of requests
        users can make each day are governed by licenses. Service protection limits have also been put in
        place against malicious behavior that would otherwise disrupt service for all customers.
        Microsoft Power Platform requests
        Microsoft Power Platform requests consist of actions that users perform across various products.
        At a high level, the following constitute Microsoft Power Platform requests:
             Connectors: All API requests to connectors from Power Apps or Power Automate.
             Power Automate: All Power Automate step actions.
             Dataverse: All create, update, delete (CRUD) operations, in addition to special operations
             like "share" or "assign." These can come from any client or app, using any SOAP or REST
             endpoint. These include—but aren't limited to—plug-ins, asynchronous workflows, and
             custom controls making the abovementioned operations.
        The specific number of allowed requests that a user can make in a 24-hour period is governed by
        the user's license.
        Entitlement limits
        Entitlement limits represent the number of requests users are entitled to make each day. The
        allocated limit depends on the type of license assigned to each user.
        For information about these entitlement limits, see Microsoft Power Platform requests allocations
        based on licenses.
        For information about viewing and allocating capacity add-ons, see Capacity add-ons.
        For information about purchasing individual capacity add-ons, see the Power Apps and Power
        Automate licensing guide  .
        Service protection limits
        Service protection limits exist to protect the health of the service for everyone. These limits
        provide a level of protection against random and unexpected surges in request volumes that
        threaten the availability and performance characteristics of the Dataverse platform.
        The service limits the number of concurrent connections per user account, the number of API
        requests per connection, and the amount of execution time that can be used for each connection.
        These are evaluated within a five-minute sliding window. When one of these limits is exceeded,
        an exception is returned by the platform.
        Service limits aren't expected to negatively affect normal usage of Dataverse.
        For information about current service protection limits for each service, see:
             Dataverse API request limits: Applicable to Dynamics 365 customer engagement apps, such
             as Dynamics 365 Sales and Dynamics 365 Customer Service, in addition to connections from
             Power Apps and Power Automate to Dataverse.
             Microsoft Power Automate limits: Applicable for Power Automate.
             Limits in connectors: Applicable for Power Automate and Power Apps.
        Capacity add-ons
        The specific number of allowed Microsoft Power Platform requests that a user can make in a 24-
        hour period is governed by the user's license. For scenarios where additional capacity is required,
        a Power Apps and Power Automate capacity add-on allows customers to purchase additional
        requests.
        Each capacity add-on provides an additional 10,000 requests every 24 hours, which can be
        assigned to any user. Multiple capacity add-ons can also be assigned to the same user.
     Dataverse has entitlement limits that will evaluate the number of requests made against the
     number allowed by their current license.
     Backups
     Dataverse provides two types of backups: automatic backups, referred to as system backups, and
     manual backups.
     System backups
     System backups back up all environments. They take place automatically and continuously. The
     underlying technology used is Azure SQL Database. For more information about Azure SQL
     automated backups, see Automated backups.
     System backups for production environments that have been created with a database and have
     one or more Dynamics 365 applications installed are retained for 28 days. System backups for
     production environments that don't have Dynamics 365 applications deployed in them are
     retained for seven days. System backups for sandbox environments are retained for seven days.
     Manual backups
     Manual backups are user-initiated, typically done before making a significant customization
     change or applying a version update.
     Both sandbox and production environments can be manually backed up. Sandbox backups are
     retained for seven days. Manual backups for production environments that have been created
     with a database and have one or more Dynamics 365 applications installed are retained for 28
     days. Manual backups for production environments that don't have Dynamics 365 applications
     deployed in them are retained for seven days.
     There's no limit to the number of manual backups that can be made, and manual backups don't
     count against storage limits.
      ７ Note
      Both system and manual backups can only be restored to an environment in the same
      region in which it was backed up.
     More information: Back up and restore environments
     Datacenter regions
     As many organizations do business globally, their data needs are also global in nature. With
     Dataverse deployed and supported in regions across the world, organizations can have
     confidence that Dataverse is available when and where they need it.
     For the current list of datacenter regions, see Datacenter regions.
     See also
     Work with any data
      Last updated on 05/21/2026
       Work with any data
       Article • 03/02/2023
       Microsoft Dataverse provides an abstraction that makes it possible to work with any
       type of data, including relational, non-relational, image, file, relative search, or data lake.
       There is no need to understand the type of data as Dataverse exposes a set of data
       types that allow you to build up your model. The type of storage is optimized for the
       data type chosen.
       Data can be easily imported and exported with dataflows, Power Query, and Azure Data
       Factory. Dynamics customers can also use the Data Export Service.
       Dataverse also has a connector for Power Automate and Azure Logic Apps that can be
       used with the hundreds of other connectors in those services for on-premises,
       infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), or software as a service
       (SaaS) services. This includes sources in Azure, Microsoft 365, Dynamics 365, SAP ERP,
       Salesforce, Amazon Redshift, Access, Excel, text/CSV, SharePoint lists, SQL Server
       databases, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Blockchain, and Azure Synapse Analytics.
       Common Data Model
       If you've ever had to bring data from multiple systems and apps together, you know
       what an expensive and time-consuming task that can be. Without being able to share
       and understand the same data easily, each app or data integration project requires a
       custom implementation.
       Common Data Model provides reference architecture that's intended to streamline this
       process by providing a shared data language for business and analytical apps to use.
       The Common Data Model metadata system makes it possible for data and its meaning
       to be shared across apps and business processes such as Power Apps, Power BI,
       Dynamics 365, and Azure.
       Common Data Model includes a set of standardized, extensible data schemas that
       Microsoft and its partners have published. This collection of predefined schemas
       includes tables, attributes, semantic metadata, and relationships. The schemas represent
       commonly used concepts and activities, such as Account and Campaign, to simplify the
       creation, aggregation, and analysis of data.
       The Common Data Model schemas can be used to inform the creation of tables in
       Dataverse. The resulting tables will then be compatible with apps and analytics that
       target this Common Data Model definition.
       The following image shows some elements of the standard Common Data Model
       tables. 
       Tables
       In Dataverse, tables are used to model and manage business data. To increase
       productivity, Dataverse includes a set of tables known as standard tables. These tables
       are designed, in accordance with best practices, to capture the most common concepts
       and scenarios within an organization. The standard tables adhere to Common Data
       Model.
       A set of tables that are commonly used across industries, such as User and Team, are
       included in Dataverse and referred to as standard tables. These out-of-the-box tables
       can also be customized, such as including additional columns. In addition, you can easily
       create your own custom tables in Dataverse.
       Columns
       Columns define the individual data items that can be used to store data in a table. Fields
       are sometimes called attributes by developers. A table representing a course at a
       university might contain columns such as "Name," "Location," "Department," "Registered
       Students," and so on.
       Columns might have different types of data such as numerals, strings, digital data,
       images, and files. There's no need to keep relational and non-relational data separated
       artificially if it's part of the same business process or flow. Dataverse stores the data in
       the best storage type for the model created.
       Each of these columns can be associated with one of many data types supported by
       Dataverse.
       More information: Types of columns
       Relationships
      Data in one table often relates to data in another table. table relationships define how
      rows can be related to each other in the Dataverse model.
      Dataverse provides easy-to-use visual designers to define the different types of
      relationships from one table to another (or between a table and itself). Each table can
      have a relationship with more than one table, and each table can have more than one
      relationship to another table.
      The relationship types are:
        Many-to-one: In this type of relationship, many table A records can be associated
        with a single table B record. For example, a class of students have a single
        classroom.
        One-to-many: In this type of relationship, a single table B record can be associated
        with many table A records. For example, one single teacher teaches many classes.
        Many-to-many: In this type of relationship, each record in table A can match more
        than one record in table B, and vice versa. For example, students attend many
        classes, and each class can have multiple students.
      Because many-to-one relationships are the most common, Dataverse provides a specific
      data type named lookup, which not only makes it easy to define this relationship but
      adds productivity to building forms and apps.
      For more information about creating table relationships, see Create a relationship
      between tables.
      Organizations often need to be in compliance with various regulations to ensure the
      availability of customer interaction history, audit logs, access reports, and security
      incident tracking reports. Organizations might want to track changes in Dataverse data
      for security and analytical purposes.
      Dataverse provides an auditing capability where changes to tables and attribute data in
      an organization can be rowed over time for use in analysis and reporting. Auditing is
      supported on all custom—and most customizable—tables and attributes. Auditing isn't
      supported on metadata changes, retrieve operations, export operations, or during
      authentication. For information about how to configure auditing, go to Manage
      Dataverse auditing.
      Dataverse supports analytics by providing the capability to choose tables for machine
      learning models to run. It has a prebuilt AI capability through AI Builder.
      Search
      Dataverse provides three ways to query rows:
         Dataverse search
         Quick find (single-table or multi-table)
         Advanced find
        ７ Note
        Multi-table quick find is also called categorized search.
      For more information, see Compare searches.
      Dataverse search
      Dataverse search delivers fast and comprehensive results across multiple tables in a
      single list, sorted by relevance. It uses a dedicated search service external to Dataverse
      (powered by Azure) to boost search performance.
      Dataverse search brings the following enhancements and benefits:
         Improves performance by using external indexing and Azure search technology.
         Finds matches to any word in the search term in any column in the table,
         compared to quick find where all words from the search term must be found in
         one column.
         Finds matches that include inflectional words like stream, streaming, or streamed.
         Returns results from all searchable tables in a single list sorted by relevance, so the
         better the match, the higher the result appears in the list. A match has a higher
         relevancy if more words from the search term are found in close proximity to each
         other. The smaller the amount of text where the search words are found, the
         higher the relevancy. For example, if you find the search words in a company name
         and address, it might be a better match than finding the same words in a long
         article, far apart from each other.
         Highlights matches in the results list. When a search term matches a term in a row,
         the term appears as bold and italicized text in your search results.
       For more information about Dataverse search, see Using Dataverse search to search for
       rows.
       Quick find
       Dataverse includes the ability to find rows quickly and has approaches that will search
       just one type of table, such as customer, or be used to search across multiple types of
       tables at the same time, such as contacts, users, customers, and so on.
       Single-table quick find is used to find rows of only one type. This search option is
       available from within a view.
       Multiple-table quick find (categorized search) is also used to find rows, but will find them
       across different types of tables, such as accounts or contacts.
       Data Lake
       Dataverse supports continuous replication of table data to Azure Data Lake Storage,
       which can then be used to run analytics such as Power BI reporting, machine learning,
      data warehousing, and other downstream integration processes.
      This feature is designed for enterprise big-data analytics. It's cost-effective, scalable, has
      high availability and disaster recovery capabilities, and enables best-in-class analytics
      performance.
      Data is stored in the Common Data Model format, which provides semantic consistency
      across apps and deployments. Standardized metadata and self-describing data in
      Common Data Model facilitates metadata discovery and interoperability between data
      producers and consumers such as Power BI, Data Factory, Azure Databricks, and Azure
      Machine Learning.
      See also
      Importing and exporting data
    Importing and exporting data
    from Dataverse
    Microsoft Dataverse is a software as a service (SaaS) data platform that helps you easily create
    and manage your data, events, and logic and generate analytics and insights to support
    interconnected apps built on the Dataverse platform. Apps include Microsoft apps such as
    Dynamics 365 Sales, Service, Marketing, Customer Insights, Customer Journey Orchestration, as
    well as customer apps and processes from other software providers, all of which operate in a
    secure and compliant manner. Dataverse, being a hyperscale polyglot storage, can store any type
    of data (relational, file, observational, and so on) for all your transactional and analytical
    applications. For this reason, it's the data platform for all Power Platform products and Dynamics
    365 applications. Dataverse is a critical element of Microsoft Power Platform, supporting all the
    data, events, analytics, and related processing, in addition to generating insights for citizen app
    makers and professional developers to build, store, and manage data for their applications.
    Data required by apps and processes doesn't often originate from or reside within Dataverse.
    Mashing up external data with Dataverse is an essential component in building apps, adding data
    to existing apps, and creating valuable insights. With the proliferation of big data and the ever-
    multiplying types of data sources, such as AI, ML, IoT, web commerce, web API, services, ERP, and
    line of business apps require Dataverse customers to be agile with using this variety of data.
     There are multiple ways to import and export data into Microsoft Dataverse. You can use
     dataflows, Power Query, Azure Synapse Link, Azure Data Factory, Azure Logic Apps, and Power
     Automate.
     Where to start?
     The first consideration is to start with the external data, which already exists outside of Dataverse
     that is required for building an app, form, or other component. It isn't necessary to persist that
     data in Dataverse to start using it. Many times, it's best to continue to let the other system
     manage the data while using the data as needed in Dataverse. The virtual table feature in
     Dataverse provides this capability. More information: Create virtual tables using virtual
     connectors.
     With virtual tables, you can build an app that uses the external data as if it were a Dataverse
     table. To create virtual tables, use one of the provided virtual table connector providers when you
     create a virtual table.
     Import external data to Dataverse
     Your desired outcomes might drive the decision to persist data in Dataverse versus using virtual
     tables to surface external data in Dataverse. If you want your data to be managed by security
     concepts in Dataverse and application lifecycle management features or if you're interested in
     mashing up external data with native Dataverse data, consider moving data into Dataverse.
     Additionally, if you’re interested in using Dataverse workflow and business rules, you might
     consider migrating that data into Dataverse. You should also consider the economic impact of
     loading data into Dataverse, which might increase storage costs. If the data must continue to be
     managed by an external system, it can be beneficial to leave it there and interact with it in
     Dataverse using virtual tables.
     Dataflows, Power Query, and Excel files
     Dataflows enable you to connect with business data from various sources, clean the data,
     transform it, and then load it into Dataverse. Dataflows support dozens of popular on-premises,
     cloud, and SaaS data sources.
     Power Query is a data connection technology you can use to discover, connect, combine, and
     refine data sources to meet your analysis needs. Features in Power Query are available in Excel
     and Power BI Desktop.
    During the project envisioning phase, you should weigh out all the options and decide whether
    external data needs to be part of your transactional data. Once the approach is finalized,
    changing it during implementation and post go-live might cause disruption for the end users
    experience. Once the decision has been made to load external data into Dataverse, a great tool is
    dataflows. Dataflows are a great choice when you need to transform and prepare the data while
    you move it. The dataflow design environment, Power Query, has robust out-of-the-box
    functionality to help with intuitive transformation and data prep.
    More information: Create and use dataflows in Power Apps and Add data to a table in Dataverse
    by using Power Query
    Note that loading data via dataflows is subject to the Dataverse service protection limits. Learn
    more
    Power Query supports a multitude of available connectors as outlined here: List of all Power
    Query connectors
    If your data originates in Excel, like that of many Dataverse customers, then use the existing Excel
    connector, for example, among the multitude of other available connectors, to build a data
    pipeline into Dataverse. In addition to one-off data loads, sync your Excel data source with
    Dataverse using a dataflow. Consider Excel file size limitations with this guidance reduce the size
    of an Excel workbook to view it in Power BI
    Moreover, if you have multiple Excel files in a folder that you want to load into Dataverse, use
    Power Query folder connector to combine, transform, and load data.
     IT professionals can also free up business users from the complexities of building data pipelines
     by creating Power Platform dataflow templates. Build a complex query combining data from
     multiple sources, save it, and share with business users. This file can be then used from the New
     dataflow > Import template feature in Power Apps. All the user needs to do is verify credentials
     for data access to start loading data into Dataverse tables. Learn more Create Power Platform
     dataflows from queries in Microsoft Excel.
     You can also perform a one-time import of data directly from a single Excel file into a Dataverse
     table. More information: Import data from Excel and export data to CSV
     Azure Data Factory
    Data Factory is a data integration service that provides a low-code or no-code approach to
    construct extract, transform, and load (ETL) processes within a visual environment or by writing
    your own code.
    Depending on your data needs, at some point you might require more involved data engineering
    to bring the data from external sources into Dataverse. It isn't just about the data volume, but
    also about the amount and complexity of data transformations required for the source data to
    meet your data requirements in Dataverse. An additional consideration is the IT resources are
    available to assist with the effort. These more complex data scenarios can be addressed with
    Power Platform dataflows, Azure Data Factory, and Web API. Data Factory and Web API
    integration patterns shine at building pipelines that require involved workflow and algorithm rich
    transformations. Conversely, dataflows are faster to start with and easier to use.
    With Data Factory, you can visually integrate Dataverse and other data sources by using more
    than 90 natively built and maintenance-free connectors.
     In addition to bringing data into Dataverse, Data Factory can also be used to prepare, transform,
     and enrich data with Azure Databricks and move data into Azure Synapse Analytics.
     Exporting data from Dataverse
     Exporting data, either to another data technology or to another environment, can use any of the
     same technologies mentioned for importing data, such as dataflows, Data Factory, Power Query,
     and Power Automate.
     Dynamics customers who are targeting SQL Server or Azure SQL Database can use Azure Synapse
     Link. Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse connects with Azure Synapse Analytics to enable you to
     get near real-time insights over your data from Microsoft Dataverse. With a tight seamless
     integration between Dataverse and Azure Synapse Analytics, Azure Synapse Link enables you to
     run analytics, business intelligence and machine learning scenarios on your data. More
     information: What is Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
     See also
     Work with any type of app
      Last updated on 05/04/2026
       Work with any type of app
       Article • 06/21/2022
       Microsoft Dataverse provides multiple ways to integrate in any type of app (mobile,
       web, desktop), device, system, or service. For cloud solutions, there are ways to integrate
       regardless of the model in which your solution is deployed—infrastructure as a service
       (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), or software as a service (SaaS). For IaaS-based
       solutions, the integration approach also works well if solutions are running inside of
       containers.
       In some cases, integration with an app can be achieved by using business logic
       contained in Dataverse. In other cases, it will involve integration via events, the
       Dataverse OData API, or using plug-ins.
       Defining business logic
       Tables in Dataverse can use rich server-side logic and validation to ensure data quality
       and reduce repetitive code in each app that creates and uses data in a table.
          Business rules: Validate data across multiple columns and tables, and provide
          warning and error messages, regardless of the app used to create the data. More
          information: Create a business rule for a table
          Business process flows: Guide users to ensure that they enter data consistently
          and follow the same steps every time. Business process flows are currently only
          supported for model-driven apps. More information: Business processes flows
          overview
          Workflows: Automate business processes without user interaction. More
          information: Classic Dataverse workflows
          Business logic with code: Supports advanced developer scenarios to extend the
          app directly through code. More information: Apply business logic using code
       Integrating with apps by using events
       A common approach of app integration is through the use of events. For example, an
       event such as adding a new row occurs in Dataverse, and this should be communicated
       to an associated system so that an action can be taken. For example, if a new support
       request was raised, it might trigger an SMS message to be sent to the assigned support
       staff.
       This interactivity can also occur in the opposite direction—an update in an external
       system might result in data being added, updated, or deleted from a Power Platform
       environment.
       The most popular approaches in Dataverse involve webhooks, Azure messaging (Service
       Bus, Event Hubs), Azure Logic Apps, or Power Automate.
       Webhooks
       With Dataverse, you can send data about events that occur on the service to a web app
       by using webhooks. A webhook is a lightweight HTTP pattern for connecting web APIs
       and services with a publish-and-subscribe model. Webhook senders notify receivers
       about events by making requests to receiver endpoints with some information about
       the events.
       Webhooks enable developers and ISVs to integrate Dataverse data with their own
       custom code hosted on external services. By using the webhook model, you can secure
       your endpoint by using authentication header or query string parameter keys. This is
       simpler than the shared access signature authentication model used with Azure Service
       Bus integration.
         Webhooks can only scale to the point at which your hosted web service can handle
         the messages.
         Webhooks enable synchronous and asynchronous steps.
                 Webhooks send POST requests with the JSON payload and can be consumed by
                 any programming language or web app hosted anywhere.
                 Webhooks can be invoked from a plug-in or custom workflow activity.
            Azure Service Bus
            Service Bus provides a secure and reliable communication channel between Dataverse
            runtime data and external, cloud-based line-of-business apps. This capability is
            especially useful in keeping disparate Dataverse systems or other Dataverse servers
            synchronized with business data changes.
            The sequence of events is as follows:
                 A listener app is registered on a Service Bus solution endpoint and begins actively
                 listening for the Dataverse remote execution context on the service bus.
                 A user performs some operation in Dataverse that triggers execution of the
                 registered out-of-the-box plug-in or a custom Azure-aware plug-in. The plug-in
                 initiates a post, through an asynchronous service system job, of the current request
                 data context to Service Bus.
                 The claims posted by Dataverse are authenticated. Service Bus then relays the
                 remote execution context to the listener. The listener processes the context
                 information and performs some business-related task with that information.
                 Service Bus notifies the asynchronous service of a successful post and sets the
                 status of the related system job to Completed.
            Service Bus relays the request message data context between Dataverse and the Service
            Bus solution listener apps. Service Bus also provides data security so that only
            authorized apps can access the posted Dynamics 365 data. Authorization of Dataverse
            to post the data context to Service Bus, and for listener apps to read it, is managed by
            Azure shared access signatures.
            More information: Service Bus   and Service Bus authentication and authorization
            Logic Apps and Power Automate
            Logic Apps, offered via Azure, and Power Automate, offered via Microsoft Power
            Platform, can trigger a workflow that can be used to integrate with application events
            and data on a schedule or by activity in a database, system, service, or SaaS.
       These workflows can execute logic and interact with these systems using the hundreds
       of connectors to databases, PaaS, and SaaS.
       For example, when a row is added to a relational database, such as SQL, this might
       trigger a workflow that can insert this data in Dataverse.
       With the ability to create custom connectors by using Open API (formerly known as
       Swagger) definitions for a service, it's also straightforward to include services, functions,
       and code running in IaaS and Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
       Integrating Dataverse into apps with the OData
       API
       All popular programming languages support a form of integration with REST-based
       APIs.
            The Dataverse Web API provides a development experience that can be used across a
            wide variety of programming languages, platforms, and devices. The Web API
            implements the OData (Open Data Protocol), version 4.0, an OASIS standard for building
            and consuming RESTful APIs over rich data sources. You can learn more about this
            protocol at www.odata.org  . For more information about this standard, see www.oasis-
            open.org .
            Dataverse takes an "API first" approach. This means that the service doesn't just provide
            a mechanism to query data, it also provides metadata from the service on business
            rules, constraints, and so on, that you can use to build intelligent, responsive apps and
            services.
            The API is secured by using OAuth. OAuth requires an idtable provider for
            authentication. For Dataverse, the idtable provider is Microsoft Entra ID. To
            authenticate with Microsoft Entra by using a Microsoft work or school account, use the
            Microsoft Authentication Libraries (MSAL).
            For more information about getting started with the Dataverse Web API, see Use the
            Dataverse Web API.
            For more information about using the Dataverse Web API with OAuth, see Use OAuth
            with Dataverse.
            Plug-ins
      The Dataverse provides the ability to write code that sits between the API and the data.
      This code, written in .NET, is referred to as a plug-in. Because the plug-in sits between
      the API and the data, it enforces the same logic on every app.
      Plug-ins can be synchronous or asynchronous, and perform the following tasks:
        Return errors to the user.
        Query Dataverse data to evaluate logic to perform.
        Perform data operations.
        Perform outbound HTTP requests.
      Plug-ins are registered at points in the event pipeline, which are illustrated here.
      Within the event pipeline, the following events can occur:
        Requests and Responses can be examined and rejected or manipulated in several
        steps of the event pipeline.
        Validation handlers can throw custom exceptions to reject operations that your
        logic considers invalid.
        Pre-operation handlers can modify requests before the database operation.
        Post-operation handlers can modify responses.
        Async handlers perform automation after the response is returned.
      One constraint with plug-ins is that they must be self-contained. If integration code
      requires references to other libraries, integration can be done by using Azure Functions.
      Azure Functions
      Azure Functions provides a serverless code execution option for business and
      integration logic.
      Functions are triggered by a call from an external system, service, or code. For
      Dataverse, that trigger can come directly from Dataverse using Service Bus, a webhook,
      or a call from a plug-in. Additionally, the Azure Functions call can be initiated via a flow
      in either Logic Apps or Power Automate that involves the Dataverse connector.
      More information: Use plug-ins to extend business processes
     Tables in Dataverse
     Tables are used to model and manage business data. When you develop an app, you can use
     standard tables, custom tables, or both. Microsoft Dataverse provides standard tables by default.
     These are designed, in accordance with best practices, to capture the most common concepts
     and scenarios within an organization.
     Create new custom tables or customize existing standard tables to suit your business needs. To
     do this, app makers manage tables in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com). Makers can also
     manage tables in the model-driven app designer.
     See also
     Types of tables
     Create a custom table
      Last updated on 08/07/2026
     Tables and metadata in Microsoft Dataverse
     Microsoft Dataverse is designed so that you can quickly and easily create a data model for your
     application. Normally, you shouldn't have to concern yourself with some of the details about
     metadata that this article introduces. But if you want to develop a deeper understanding about
     how apps that use Dataverse work or you're evaluating what is possible, understanding the
     metadata used by Dataverse can provide you with insight.
     Metadata means data about data. Dataverse provides a flexible platform for you because it's
     relatively easy to edit the definitions of the data that the environment will use. In Dataverse, the
     metadata is a collection of tables. Tables describe the kinds of data stored in the database. Table
     metadata is what controls the kinds of records you can create and what kind of actions can be
     performed on them. When you use the customization tools to create or edit tables, columns, and
     table relationships, you're editing this metadata.
     Different clients people use to interact with the data in your environment depend on the table
     metadata and adapt as you customize the metadata. But these clients also depend on other data
     to control what visual elements to display, any custom logic to apply, and how to apply security.
     This system data is also stored within tables but the tables themselves aren't available for
     customization.
     You can learn about standard tables, attributes, and table relationships included by default in
     Dataverse by reviewing the entity reference.
       Tip
      The designers available to edit metadata don't show all the details found in the metadata.
      You can install a model-driven app called the Metadata Browser, which allows you to view
      all the tables and metadata properties that are found in the system. More information:
      Browse table definitions in your environment.
     Create new metadata or use existing metadata?
     Dataverse comes with standard tables that support core business application capabilities. For
     example, data about your customers or potential customers is intended to be stored using the
     account or contact tables.
     Each of these tables also contains many columns that represent common data that the system
     might need to store for the respective table.
     For most organizations it's to your advantage to use the standard tables and attributes for the
     purposes they were provided.
     If you install a solution, you can expect that the solution developer leveraged the standard tables
     and attributes. Creating a new custom table that replaces a system table or attribute means that
     any solutions available might not work for your organization.
     For these reasons, we recommend that you look for and use the provided standard tables,
     columns, and table relationships when they make sense for your organization. If they don't make
     sense and can't be edited to match your need, you should evaluate if creating a new table,
     column, or table relationships is required.
     Remember that you can change the display name of a table so that it matches the nomenclature
     your organization uses. For example, it's common for people to change the display name of the
     Account table to Company or the name of the Contact table to Individual. This can be done to
     tables or attributes without changing the behavior of the table. For more information about
     renaming tables, see Change the name of a table.
     You can't delete standard tables, columns, or table relationships. They're considered part of the
     system solution and every Dataverse environment is expected to have them. If you want to hide a
     standard table, change the security role privileges for your organization to remove the read
     privilege for that table. This removes the table from most parts of the application. If there's a
     system column that you don't need, remove it from the form and any views that use it. Change
     the Searchable value in the column and table relationship definitions so that they don't appear in
     advanced find.
     Limitations on creating metadata items
     There's a limit to the number of tables you can create. Admins can view information about the
     number of tables and percent used towards the maximum in the legacy Resources In Use page.
     Go to Power Platform admin center (admin.powerplatform.com) select Manage > Environments,
     and open the environment you want. Select Settings, expand Resources select All legacy
     settings. In the legacy settings, select Administration > Resources In Use.
     Within each table there's also an upper limit on the number of columns you can create. This limit
     is based on the technical limitations on the amount of data that can be stored in a row of a
     Dataverse table and isn't viewable. It's difficult to provide a specific number because each type of
     column can use a different amount of space. The upper limit depends on the total space used by
     all the columns for the table.
     Most people don't create enough custom columns to reach the limit, but if you find yourself
     planning to add hundreds of custom columns to a table, you should consider if this is the best
     design. Do all the columns you plan to add describe properties for a row for that table? Do you
     really expect that people using your environment will be able to manage a form that includes
     such a high number of columns? The number of columns you add to a form increase the amount
     of data that has to be transferred each time a row is edited and affects the performance of the
     system. Take these factors into consideration when you're adding custom columns to a table.
     Choice columns provide a set of options that are displayed in a drop-down control on a form or
     in picklist control when using advanced find. Your environment can support thousands of options
     within a choice column, but you shouldn't consider this as the upper limit. Usability studies show
     that people have trouble using a system where a drop-down control provides large numbers of
     options. Use choice columns to define categories for data. Don't use choice columns to select
     categories that actually represent separate items of data. For example, rather than maintain a
     choice column that stores each of hundreds of possible manufacturers of a type of equipment,
     consider creating a table that stores references to each manufacturer and use a lookup column
     instead of a choice.
     Next steps
     Create or edit tables (row types)
     Create and edit relationships between tables
      Last updated on 04/17/2026
    Types of tables
    A table defines information that you want to track in the form of rows (records), which typically
    include column data such as company name, location, products, email, phone, and so on.
    Tables appear in Power Apps as one of these different types:
      Standard: Several standard tables, also known as out-of-box tables, are included with a
      Power Platform environment that includes Microsoft Dataverse. Account, business unit,
      contact, task, and user tables are examples of standard tables in Dataverse. Most of the
      standard tables included with Dataverse can be customized. Tables that are imported as part
      of a managed solution and set as customizable also appear as standard tables. Any user
      with appropriate privileges can customize these tables where the table property has
      customizable set to true.
      Activity: Are a special kind of table and are best for rows that have an activity-based
      element, which can include a subject, start time, stop time, due date, and duration.
      Dataverse already comes with several out-of-the-box activity tables, such as appointment,
      task, email, and phone call. More information: Activity tables
      Virtual: Are when you need the table to be populated with data from an external source
      outside of Dataverse.
      Elastic: Are for when the table stores a very large dataset in excess of tens of millions of
      rows.
    Activity tables
    An activity can be thought of as any action for which an entry can be made on a calendar. An
    activity has time dimensions (start time, stop time, due date, and duration) that help determine
    when the action occurred or will occur. Activities also contain data that helps determine what
    action the activity represents, for example, subject and description. An activity can be opened,
    canceled, or completed. The completed status of an activity will have several sub-status values
    associated with it to clarify the way that the activity was completed.
    Activity tables are a special kind of table that only a user or team can own. An organization can't
    own activity tables. When you create a table, you can specify it as a standard or activity table.
    The following table lists activity tables that are available in a default environment.
                                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
            Name                 Description                                      Display in       Reference
                                                                                  activity
                                                                                  menus
            Appointment          Commitment representing a time interval          Yes              Appointment
                                 with start and end times and duration.
            Email                Activity that is delivered using email           Yes              Email
                                 protocols.
            Fax                  Activity that tracks call outcome and            Yes              Fax
                                 number of pages for a fax and optionally
                                 stores an electronic copy of the
                                 document.
            Letter               Activity that tracks the delivery of a letter.   Yes              Letter
                                 The activity can contain the electronic
                                 copy of the letter.
            Phone Call           Activity to track a telephone call.              Yes              PhoneCall
            Recurring            The master appointment of a recurring            Yes              RecurringAppointmentMaster
            Appointment          appointment series.
            Task                 Generic activity representing work               Yes              Task
                                 needed to be done.
          When you can create a new custom activity table, you might create it to read instant message
          communications. Creating an activity table is different from creating a non-activity table because
          you don't specify a primary column. All activity tables have a Primary Field set to Subject and
          other common columns that are defined by the Activity table. This allows all types of activities to
          be shown in a view where just the common columns are displayed.
          To create a custom activity table, open the Advanced options section in the New table panel,
          select the Activity option from the Type drop-down list. After you select this, you'll see that
          Display in Activity menus is selected. This setting allows people to create this type of activity in
          the activity menus. This isn't selected for activities that are typically associated with specific
          events and created behind using code or by a workflow. After you save the table, you can't
          change these settings.
          Enable activities for a table
          Enable activities to add activities to a table and use the Regarding lookup for the table.
            1. To enable activities, sign in to Power Apps  .
            2. On the left nav, select Tables, and then open the table you want.
            3. Select Properties.
            4. Expand Advanced options, and then select Creating a new activity.
                 ） Important
                 Once enabled this setting can't be disabled.
            5. Select Save.
        Enable users to associate activity table records to multiple
        business records
        Users sometimes need to associate an activity, like email to multiple records. For example, a
        customer sends an email that is related to multiple cases. The existing Regarding lookup only
        allows a user to relate an email to a single parent record. The email activity record can now be
        associated to multiple business records such as accounts, contacts, leads, opportunities, and
        cases through a new activity party type column named related. When this email activity record is
        associated to multiple business records, it appears in the timeline for each of the associated
        records.
           ７ Note
           This feature is supported with the activity tables listed earlier in this article. However, the
           Task activity isn't supported.
        The related column isn't added to the activity table form by default. To enable users to use this
        new column, add the related column to the activity main form. For information about how to add
        a column to a form, see add columns to a form.
        After you add the related column to the form, users can associate the activity record with other
        related party records (parties) like cases or opportunities.
        Differences between regarding and related columns
     While there are similarities between the regarding and related columns, the following are
     important differences to note:
        Supported tables
        The related column is currently only available for the Email table. The related column
        doesn't currently support the same relationships utilized by the regarding column. The list
        of supported tables is currently limited to the tables that can have a contact email.
        Relationship type
        The regarding column acts as a parental relationship from a parent record. For example, if
        an account has multiple activities and is later deleted, the same action is automatically
        applied to the child activity records. The related column isn't a parental relationship. Actions
        performed on related records don't affect the related activities.
        When the column value is set
        After the related column is added to the email form, users can manually add one or more
        records to indicate the records are related to the activity. The regarding and related
        columns are independent. Setting a value for the regarding lookup column doesn't affect
        the values for related. When a new email is related to an existing email (for example, as a
        reply), the values from the related and regarding columns of the correlated email are copied
        to the new activity. However, when you create a new email from the timeline control within
        a record’s context, the related column isn't automatically set to the current record. This
        behavior can be modified by enabling an OrgDBOrgSetting named
        AddParentEntityToRelatedOnNewActivityCreate.
        Outlook add-in scenarios
        Some features such as Dynamics 365 App for Outlook and Copilot for Sales include an
        ability to save an Outlook email as an email record while also setting the regarding column.
        These features don't set the value of the related column.
     Table ownership
     There are two different types of standard and custom table ownership. When you create a
     custom table the ownership options are User or team or Organization owned. Once a table is
     created, the ownership type can't be changed.
                                                   ﾉ
                                                     Expand table
          Ownership     Description
          Organization  Data belongs to the organization. Access to the data is controlled at the organization level.
          User or team  Data belongs to a user or a team. Actions that can be performed on these rows can be
                        controlled on a user level.
        Notice that there are a few Dataverse system tables that are similar to standard tables but have a
        different type of ownership from organization and user or team ownership:
              None. Some system tables don't have an owner, such as the Privilege table.
              Business Unit. A few system tables are business-owned. These include Business Unit,
              Calendar, Team, and Security Role tables.
           ） Important
           After you create a custom table, you can't change the ownership. Before you create a table,
           make sure that you choose the correct type of ownership. If you later determine that your
           custom table must be of a different type, you need to delete it and create a new one.
        Virtual tables
        A virtual table is a custom table in Dataverse that has columns containing data from an external
        data source. Virtual tables appear in your app to users as regular table rows, but contain data that
        is sourced from an external database dynamically at runtime, such as an Azure SQL Database.
        Rows based on virtual tables are available in all clients including custom clients developed using
        the Dataverse web services. More information: Create and edit virtual tables that contain data
        from an external data source
        Elastic tables
        Elastic tables offer performance benefits over standard tables when the table contains a very
        large dataset. Elastic tables are powered by Azure Cosmos DB. More information: Create and edit
        elastic tables
        See also
        Create tables
        Edit tables
      Last updated on 07/30/2026
         Create and edit tables using Power Apps
         Tables are used to model and manage business data. When you develop an app, you can use
         standard tables, custom tables, or both. Power Apps provides an easy way to view, create, and
         edit tables for Microsoft Dataverse.
         Prerequisites
         To create and edit tables in Dataverse, you need the following:
              A Power Platform environment with Dataverse.
              Appropriate permission that includes both of the following privileges:
                The system customizer security role in the environment. Note that, apart from self-
                created table records, the system customizer role doesn’t have the privileges to access
                table records that aren’t shared with them. More information: Environments with a
                Dataverse database.
                A system or custom security role that has Create, Read, and Write privileges to the
                Entity table. These privileges allow the user to create and edit tables in Dataverse. Note
                that a Power Platform admin must grant the user data access to edit the rows of these
                tables.
         View tables
         Sign into Power Apps  , and then select Tables on the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in
         the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
         Filter the tables that are displayed using the following tabs:
                                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                                      Expand table
          View           Description
          Recommended Displays only the standard tables. Standard tables are tables included with Power Apps
                         or Dynamics 365 apps.
          Custom         Displays only custom tables. Custom tables are created by you and other app makers.
          All            Displays all the tables.
     You can also select a column heading from the table view, and then select Filter by to display
     tables by a certain property, such as Type, Managed, or Tags.
     Create a table
     There are several ways to create a new table:
        Create new tables
        Set advanced properties
        Create with external data
        Create a virtual table
     Create new tables
     Use the data workspace experience where you create tables, configure table relationships, and
     can view a diagram of your data.
                                            
      1. Command bar:
         Back. Takes you back where you were in Power Apps.
         New table. Create a new table using any of the methods described in this article.
         Existing table. Add one more more existing tables and visualize them in the
         designer.
         Hide data or View data. Closes or displays the table row editor.
         Create relationships. Creates a table relationship between two tables. Select a table
         on the canvas and CTRL + click another table, then select Create relationships. More
         information: Types of table relationships (NOTE: many-to-many relationships aren't
         supported)
         Remove. Deletes the table and all associated table rows when a new table is
         selected. Remove doesn't delete the table and associated rows when an existing
         table is selected.
      2. Data workspace canvas. On the data workspace canvas, you can drag tables around the
       data workspace to relocate them and select ... to invoke the table actions menu, and view
       a diagram of your data.
      3. Data workspace actions:
         +. Zoom in to increase the size of the table objects on the canvas.
         -. Zoom out to decrease the size of the table objects on the canvas.
         Fit view. Resize to fit within the available space in the browser tab.
         Show map or Hide map. When Show map is selected, displays a compact
         representation of the tables on the canvas.
      4. Table actions menu:
         Hide data or View data. Closes or displays the table row editor.
         Row ownership. Select the ownership type as either user or team, or organization.
         Properties. Edit the table display name, plural name, description, and schema name.
         Remove. Remove the table and all associated rows. If the tables is a new table, all
         data is deleted. For existing tables, that table is only removed from the table
         designer and no data is removed.
      5. Table row editor. In this area, create new, edit, or delete rows, create new columns,
       change the table ownership type, and edit table properties.
      6. Show more or less column. You can select and clear the columns to be displayed in the
       table card. Also displays or hides the relationship for lookup columns that connect to
       another table currently in the designer.
      7. Add new relationship handle. Drag the handle and create a new relationship by pointing
       it towards another table. Some relationship types are currently not supported. More
       information: Limitations using the data workspace
      Tip
     Can't find the tables you created on the canvas? Select Fit view on the data workspace
     actions menu.
    Create a table with the visual table designer by using any of the following methods:
       Start with Copilot
       Import with SharePoint list
       Import an Excel file or .CSV
       Start from blank
    Start with Copilot
    Describe your data in natural language and Copilot generates tables along with relationships
    for you.
     ７ Note
     To use this feature, note the following requirements:
        Copilot must be enabled for the environment. By default, Copilot is enabled. More
        information: Manage feature settings
             This feature is available in 20 languages including Danish, Dutch, English (United
             States), French, German, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish, Chinese
             (Simplified), Czech, Finnish, Greek, Korean, Norwegian (Bokmål), Polish, Russian,
             Swedish, Thai, and Turkish. Depending on where your environment is hosted, you
             might need to enable data movement across regions. For more information go to
             Copilots and generative AI features that are available when you enable data
             movement across regions.
         1. From the Choose an option to create tables page, select Start with Copilot.
         2. Describe the tables you'd like to create with the assistance of Copilot. You can also specify
           the number of tables to create, size of table, and whether to include relationship by
           configuring the Table options menu.
         3. Keep iterating with Copilot in the Copilot panel until you're satisfied with your data. More
           information: Review the table
         4. When you're finished, select Save and exit.
       Limitations using the data workspace
       The following data types aren't currently supported when you create a column in the data
       workspace:
           Rich text
           Customer
           Autonumber
           Formula
       Some relationship configurations are currently not supported.
                                                                 ﾉ
                                                                    Expand table
        Starting table  Targeting table   Relationship type   Status
        New             New               One-to-many         Supported
        New             New               Many-to-one         Supported
        New             New               Many-to-many        Not supported
        Existing        New               One-to-many         Supported
        Existing        New               Many-to-one         Not supported
        Existing        New               Many-to-many        Not supported
           Starting table           Targeting table           Relationship type             Status
           Existing                 Existing                  One-to-many                   Not supported
           Existing                 Existing                  Many-to-one                   Not supported
           Existing                 Existing                  Many-to-many                  Not supported
          Set advanced properties
          From the Tables area, on the command bar select New table > Set advanced properties. This
          opens the New table properties panel. You start with a blank table and enter the table
          properties, such as name, and description. Expand Advanced options to set more properties,
          such as track changes and audit changes.
           Table properties
           Enter data for the following properties.
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
            Property               Description
            Display name           This is the singular name for the table that is shown in the app. This can be changed
                                   later.
            Plural display         This is the plural name for the table that is shown in the app. This can be changed
            name                   later.
            Description            Provide a meaningful description of the purpose of the table.
           Select Enable Attachments to append notes and files to records for this table.
           Select the Primary column tab if you want to change the Display name or Description of the
           primary column. The primary column is used by lookup fields when establishing relationships
           with other tables.
              ） Important
              After you save the table, the Primary column display name and description can't be
              changed.
           Advanced options
           Select Advanced options to display additional properties that are optional for a table.
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
            Property              Description
            Schema name           By default, the schema name is automatically created for you based on the display
                                  name, but you can change it. The schema name can't contain spaces and includes
                                  the customization prefix for the Dataverse solution publisher. You can't change this
                                  after the table is saved.
            Type                  Select the type of table. Use standard for most tables. Activity tables are a special
                                  table that can only be owned by a user or team, but can't be owned by an
                                  organization. Virtual tables require the table be populated with data from an
                                  external source. Elastic tables should be considered when your business scenario
          Property           Description
                             entails very large data volumes with high throughput, storage, and low latency
                             requirements.
          Record ownership   Switch the table type to Activity table to create tables that can manage tasks. The
                             type of Ownership defines who can perform operations on a record.
          Choose a table     You can choose whether to display an image for the table. This image is displayed in
          image              Power Apps in some design areas. Notice that the image doesn't appear in apps
                             using the table. To display images in apps, use the image column. More information:
                             Image columns
          Color              Set a color to be used for the table in model-driven apps.
          Apply duplicate    If duplicate detection is enabled for your organization, enabling this allows you to
          detection rules    create duplicate detection rules for this table.
          Track changes      Enables data synchronization in a performant way by detecting what data has
                             changed since the data was initially extracted or last synchronized. This option must
                             be enabled for certain features such as Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse.
          Provide custom     When selected, set a Help URL to control what page users see when they select the
          help               help button in the application. Use this to provide guidance specific to your
                             company processes for the table.
          Audit changes to   When auditing is enabled for your environment, this allows for changes to table
          its data           records to be captured over time. When you enable auditing for a table, by default,
                             many table columns, such as data types of owner, number, text, and choice are
                             enabled for auditing. However, some columns aren’t enabled by default such as
                             those with data types of lookup, but those columns can be enabled. Select or clear
                             the Enable auditing property for the columns that you want to enable auditing on.
          Leverage quick     After you've created and published a Quick Create Form for this table, people have
          create form if     the option to create a new record using the Create button in the navigation pane.
          available          More information: Create and design model-driven app forms
                             When this is enabled for a custom activity table, the custom activity is visible in the
                             group of activity entities when people use the Create button in the navigation pane.
                             However, because activities don't support quick create forms, the main form is used
                             when the custom table icon is selected.
          Enable long term   Dataverse supports custom retention policies to securely retain unlimited data long
          retention          term in a cost-efficient way. More information: Long term data retention overview
          Creating a new     Associate activities to records for this table.
          activity
          Doing a mail       App users can use this table with mail merge.
          merge
          Setting up         When you turn on OneNote integration, you have the benefits of using OneNote to
          OneNote            take or review customer notes from within your records. Requires SharePoint
            Property            Description
            integration         document management to be set up. More information: Set up OneNote integration
            Setting up          After other tasks have been performed to enable document management for your
            SharePoint          organization, enabling this feature allows for this table to participate in integration
            document            with SharePoint. More information: Manage your documents using SharePoint
            management
            Can have            Use the connections feature to show how records for this table have connections to
            connections         records of other tables that also have connections enabled.
            Can have a          Send emails using an email address stored in one of the fields for this table. If a
            contact email       Single Line of Text column with format set to email doesn't already exist for this
                                table, a new one is created when you enable sending email.
            Have an access      Create team templates for this table.
            team
            Can be linked to    Let app users write feedback for any table record, or rate table records within a
            feedback            defined rating range. More information: Configure a table for feedback/ratings
            Appear in search    Enable so that table records can be included in search results when using an app.
            results
            Can be taken        Makes data in this table available while the Power Apps application isn't connected
            offline             to a network.
            Can be added to     Use the table with queues. Queues improve routing and sharing of work by making
            a queue             records for this table available in a central place that everyone can access.
          Select Save to continue. This action closes the New table panel and displays the table hub.
          Create with external data
          Use an Excel file/CSV file or SharePoint list to populate a table with your data, which uses
          copilot to assist with the table generation.
             ７ Note
                   Generally available copilot features are enabled by default and can't be turned off.
                   To disable them, a tenant admin must contact support.
                   When you use create with external data, such as data from Excel or SharePoint,
                   Power Apps initially displays only the first 20 rows of your dataset as a preview. The
                   full dataset is ingested and made available after you save the table.
       1. From the Tables area, on the command bar select New table > Create with external data,
         and then select either File (Excel, .CSV) or SharePoint list.
          File (Excel, .CSV)
          a. Select from device or drag and drop your Excel file onto the Upload an Excel file
            page.
          b. The data from the Excel file is displayed as a Dataverse table. Select a column
            header > Edit column to make changes, such as the column name or data type.
          c. When you're finished, select Create.
          For more information about how AI is used with this feature, go to FAQ for Excel to
          table and app.
      SharePoint columns not used in Dataverse table generation
      The following columns aren’t included when generating a Dataverse table from a SharePoint
      list because the respective data types aren’t supported with Dataverse:
         Image
         Task outcome
         External data
         Managed metadata
         Attachment (single)
         Multiple attachments / images
         SharePoint list system columns
         Symbol at column level (currency, prefix, postfix) in numbers
         Unique values
      Create a virtual table
      A virtual table is a custom table in Microsoft Dataverse that has columns containing data from
      an external data source, such as Azure SQL Database or SharePoint.
       1. From the Tables area, on the command bar select New table > Create a virtual table.
       2. Follow the New table from external data wizard to create the virtual table. More
         information: Create the virtual table
      Edit a table
    While viewing tables, select the table you want to edit, and then select Properties from the
    command bar if you want to edit the table properties.
    Edit table components using the table hub
    To edit form components, open the table to display the table hub. The table hub displays the
    table components described in the following sections.
                                            
    Table properties
    Displays a few common properties for the table. Select Properties on the command bar to edit
    the table properties.
    Schema
    From the Schema area, select from the following table components to open the area where
    you can view and open existing components or create a new one.
       Columns. More information: Create and edit columns
       Relationships. See Create and edit relationships between tables
       Keys. More information: Define alternate keys to reference rows
    Data experiences
    From the Data experiences area select from the following table components to open the area
    where you can view and open existing components or create a new one.
       Forms. More information: Create and design forms
       Views. More information: Create or edit a view
       Charts. More information: Create a system chart
       Dashboards. More information: Create or edit dashboards
    Customizations
    From the Customizations area, select from the following table components to open the area
    where you can view and open existing components or create a new one.
       Business rules. More information: Create business rules and recommendations to apply
       logic in a form
       Commands. More information: Customize the command bar using command designer
    Table columns and data
    View and create table record data for the table. Select the number of columns, such as +17
    more, to select columns to display in the columns and data view.
    Table designer
    From the table hub, select Edit to open the table designer. The table designer lets you make
    extensive changes to a table including editing or adding new records and columns, editing
    table properties, or creating a model-driven app based on the table.
       Update forms and views
       From the table hub, select Update forms and views to add selected columns to forms and
       views in this table without having to edit them in the form and view designers. More
       information: Update forms and views using table designer
       Delete a table
       As someone with the system administrator security role, you can delete custom tables that
       aren't part of a managed solution.
         ２ Warning
         When you delete a custom table, the database tables that store data for that table are
         deleted and all data they contain is lost. Any associated records that have a parental
         relationship to the custom table are also deleted. For more information about parental
         relationships, see Create and edit relationships between tables.
         The only way to recover data from a table that was deleted is to restore the database from
         a point before the table was deleted. More information: Backup and restore instances
       While viewing tables, select the table, and then select Delete from the menu.
       If the table has dependencies that prevent it from being deleted you see an error message. To
       identify and remove any dependencies, you need to use the solution explorer. More
       information Identify table dependencies
       See also
       Build apps through conversation (preview)
       Create a custom table using code
        Last updated on 01/09/2026
            Create a custom table that has
            components in Power Apps
            Article • 04/12/2024
            With Power Apps, you tailor your app to closely fit your organization’s industry,
            nomenclature, and unique business processes. Power Apps app development includes
            adding standard "out-of-box" tables or creating custom tables. A table defines the
            information you want to track in the form of records, which typically include properties
            such as company name, location, products, email, and phone.
            In this article you create a table and then add or customize key components such as
            columns, relationships, views, and forms. You learn how to:
                 Create a custom table.
                 Add custom columns to your table.
                 Add a table relationship.
                 Customize a view.
                 Customize a form.
            The article will follow the company, Contoso, which is a pet grooming business that
            grooms dogs and cats. Contoso needs an app for client and pet tracking that can be
            used by employees across a variety of devices.
            Prerequisites
            Sign in to Power Apps  . If you don’t already have a Power Apps account, select the Get
            started free link from powerapps.com   .
            Create a custom table
               1. On the left navigation pane select Tables. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
                 select …More and then select the item you want.
               2. On the command bar select New table > Set advanced properties.
               3. In the right pane, enter the following values, and then select Create.
                      Display name: Pet
                      Description: Custom table to track pet services
      Add and customize columns
        1. Open the Pet table that was created in the previous section.
        2. Select Columns, and select the Pet column.
        3. In the right pane make the following changes to the Display name column:
           Change the Display name from Pet to Pet Name.
           Make sure Searchable is selected.
       4. Select Done.
       5. On the Columns area on the table designer toolbar select Add column. On the
        Column properties pane, enter or select the following values and options.
           Display name. Species
           Data type. Choice
           Choice. New choice
       6. Select View more, and then select Local choice.
       7. Create the choice:
        a. Replace New option with Dog.
        b. Select Add new item.
        c. Replace New option with Cat.
        d. Select Done.
         8. Make sure Searchable is selected, and then select Done.
         9. On the table designer toolbar select Add column. On the Column properties pane,
          enter or select the following values:
             Display name. Breed
             Data type. Text
        10. Make sure Searchable is selected, and then select Done.
        11. On the table designer toolbar select Add column.
        12. On the Column properties pane, enter or select the following values, and then
          select Done.
             Display name. Appointment date
             Data type. Date and time
       Add a relationship
        1. Select the Relationships area. Then, on the table designer toolbar, select Add
         relationship, and then select Many-to-one.
        2. On the right pane, in the Related list select Account.
        3. Select Done.
        4. Select Save table.
       Notice that when you add a many-to-one relationship, an Account column with the data
       type Lookup is automatically added to your list of columns in the Columns area.
       Customize a view
        1. Select the Views area, and then open the Active Pets view. If you don't see the
         Active Pets view, change the filter on the command bar from Default to All.
        2. On the view designer Table columns left pane, select the following columns to add
         them to the view.
            Account
            Appointment date
            Breed
            Species
        3. On the view designer canvas, select the Created On column, and then select
         Remove.
        4. To arrange the columns, on the view designer canvas, select the column you want
         to move and then use Move Left or Move Right. Your view should look like this.
        5. On the view designer toolbar, select Save, and then select Publish.
       Model-driven apps only: Customize the main
       form
       Skip this step if you only want to use the Pet table in a canvas app.
        1. Select Back to close the view designer and return to Power Apps.
        2. On the left navigation pane, select Tables. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
         select …More and then select the item you want.
        3. Select Pet.
        4. In the Pet table, select the Forms area, and then select Information next to the
         Main form type to open the form designer.
        5. On the form editor, select the Table columns on the left pane. Then, drag and drop
          the Species, Breed, Appointment date, and Account columns located on the pane
          on to the General section of the form designer canvas until the form looks like this.
        6. Select Save.
        7. Select Publish.
        8. Select Back to return to Power Apps.
       Add the custom table to an app
       Now your table is ready to be used to build either a canvas or model-driven app.
       Next steps
       In this topic, you learned how to create a table that can be used to create a useful app.
          To learn how to create a model-driven app, see Build your first model-driven app.
          To learn how to create a canvas app, see Create an app from scratch.
     Configure a row summary for a model-
     driven app
     Write a custom prompt to specify which columns should be included in a Copilot‑generated row
     summary. These summaries appear in a consistent, dedicated experience, either surfaced in a
     collapsible summary bar at the top of a main form or accessed directly for individual rows from
     views, giving users quick access to the most important information for a record.
     Records are often comprised of dozens of fields spread across multiple tables, views, forms, tabs,
     and sections, making it time‑consuming for users to locate and understand the information that
     matters most. By highlighting key fields and insights in an at‑a‑glance summary, makers can help
     users quickly orient themselves, regardless of where they encounter the record.
     Prerequisite for configuring a row summary
     To enable and use this feature, the following criterion is required:
        A Power Platform administrator has enabled the AI insight cards environment setting. More
        information: Manage feature settings
     Create a row summary
     Row summaries can be configured for most tables and appear on main forms and views.
     ７ Note
       When you configure the row summary, it applies to all views and main forms for the
       table.
       Some Dynamics 365 apps tables, such as Case, Lead, and Opportunity, provide their
       own summaries via the Dynamics 365 Customer Service and Dynamics 365 Sales
       applications. To avoid conflicts, the row summary feature isn't available for these tables.
       You can find more information about the summaries for these tables and the options
       for configuring or disabling these summaries by reading about the Customer Service
       summary and Sales summary features. These out-of-the-box summaries are currently
       only accessible from main forms (not views).
     1. Sign in to Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) select Tables on the left navigation pane, and
      then open the table where you want to configure a row summary. If the item isn’t in the side
      panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
     2. Under Customizations, select Row summary.
         If Row summary is disabled, hover over the words to find out the reason. For example,
         the table must have at least one row of data for the summary option to be enabled.
     3. In the Prompt box, add the columns that you want included in the summary by selecting
      Add or by typing /. You can also specify formatting for the summary, such as make it a
      bulleted list or a paragraph, as well as how to ensure the summary is generated in the user's
      preferred language. More information: Write a good prompt for the row summary
                                             
     4. Select Test prompt to display a preview of the summary. The most recently edited row in
      the table is used to generate a test response.
      5. Once you're satisfied with the columns and response from the test, select Apply to main
       forms.
      ） Important
      Any user who needs to view summaries configured through the Dynamics 365 Customer
      Service app must be assigned the prvReadLanguageLocale privilege through a security role.
    Determine which main forms include a row summary
    After you apply a row summary, the summary displays on all main forms for the table. To view the
    forms that include a row summary, in Power Apps, select Tables on the left navigation pane, and
    then under Data experiences select Forms.
    All forms with the row summary applied have a form AI icon next to the form name. Hovering
    over the icon displays "The row summary is applied to all main from for the table name table, and
    appears in every model-driven app that uses this form."
                                                     
    Write a good prompt for the row summary
    Writing a custom prompt gives you the ability to instruct the AI model to perform a specific task.
    By carefully crafting a prompt, you can generate a response that suits your specific business
    need. Here are some tips to consider when writing a prompt:
       Provide a list of the columns you want to include in the summary. Alternatively, you might
       wish to provide a list of columns that you want to exclude from the summary.
       Specify any formatting preferences, such as write the summary as a bulleted list.
       Include the appropriate input and instruction if your users work in multiple languages and
       you want the summary to respect the user's preferred language; otherwise, the summary
       will be generated in the language of the summary prompt itself, regardless of the user's
       language settings. To configure:
               Include the LanguageCode input in the prompt.
               Add the instruction to the prompt: "You must respond in language <LanguageCode>."
               If Copilot doesn't support the user's language, the summary is generated in English.
               This language instruction is added by default for newly configured summaries, but must
               be manually added for any pre-existing summaries that were created before this behavior
               was introduced.
             For information about how to craft effective prompts, download the AI Builder prompt
             engineering guide  .
        Prompt example for a row summary
        Here are examples to use when building a row summary prompt.
        Summarize Account record in a way that is easy to understand for a sales manager. Make sure to
        include all important information, including main ideas and important details, while keeping the
        order of the content logical. Remove any repetitive elements to make the summary as concise as
        possible without losing the original text's integrity. If the original text is too short to condense,
        present it as the summary.
        Don't include the title in the summary. Create the summary in two paragraphs. For the first
        paragraph, use the instructions under the header Data. For the second paragraph, use the data
        under the header Activity. Leave a blank line between the two paragraphs. Don't include the titles
        Data & Activity in the paragraphs.
        Data:
        Show the below values as bullet points using markdown text and bold the values. Make the primary
        contact a navigation link to the contact record. The link must not include query string parameters in
        it.
        Account.Annual Revenue, Account.Category, Account.Industry, Account.Ownership
        Activity:
        Generate a summary paragraph using the following customer communication fields identifying top
        2 key information and top 2 important actions to take.
        Account.Regarding (Phone Call).Subject, Account.Regarding (Email).Subject
        You must respond in language LanguageCode
     Edit a row summary
     To edit a row summary, open the table, and then under Customizations select Row summary
     (applied). Follow the steps similar in Create a row summary to make and apply changes.
     Hide a row summary
      1. In Power Apps, select Tables on the left navigation pane, and open the table where you
        want to edit a row summary.
      2. Under Customizations, select Row summary.
      3. Unselect the Show row summary option at the top right of the modal.
      ７ Note
      If you're trying to hide the default summary for case, lead, and opportunity, which are
      provided via the Dynamics 365 Customer Service and Dynamics 365 Sales applications, go to
      these articles to learn more about options for configuring and/or disabling these summaries:
         Case: Customer Service summary
         Lead and opportunity: Sales summary features.
     Adding summaries to solutions
     Row summaries are solution-aware and can be added to a solution to facilitate moving between
     environments. To add a summary to a solution, follow these steps:
       1. In Power Apps, select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and open the desired solution.
       2. Select Add existing > More > Other > AI Skill Config.
       3. Select the rows corresponding to the tables you created summaries for, and then select
        Add.
      ） Important
      Don't add AI Skill Config table rows with an owner of System to your solutions. These don't
      correspond to row summaries you have created and might cause solution import to fail.
     Known limitations
     Keep the following limitations in mind when you configure a row summary:
        Dates. Row summary isn't intended for date-based operations, such as calculating
        durations, comparing dates, or determining status from a date. Use business logic or
        calculated columns for those scenarios.
        Related-record links. Hyperlinks to related records might not render as expected in the
        summary.
        Formula and calculated columns. Values from these columns might not be reflected
        accurately.
        Metadata. Choice (option set) labels and related-table associations might not be
        interpreted as expected.
        Formatting. Rich formatting, citations, and footnotes aren't supported.
     Related information
     FAQ for prompts and text generation capabilities
      Last updated on 07/29/2026
     Import data from Excel and export data to
     CSV
     To get (import) data into Microsoft Dataverse tables, use an Excel worksheet file or a comma-
     separated values (CSV) file.
     When you export Dataverse table data, it's exported as a CSV file.
     Import from an Excel or CSV file
     There are two ways to import data from Excel.
        Option 1: Import by creating and modifying a file template
        Option 2: Import by bringing your own source file
       ） Important
         To import or export data, you must have the Environment Maker security role.
         Import from Excel or CSV file using the Import > Import data from Excel command
         isn’t available in GCC, GCC High, and DoD environments. To work around this
         limitation, from the Tables area in Power Apps select Import > Import data, and
         then choose a data source, such as Excel workbook or Text/CSV.
     Option 1: Import by creating and modifying a file template
     Every table has required columns that must exist in your input file. We recommend that you
     create a template. To do this, export data from the table. Then, use the same file and modify it
     with your data. Finally, import the modified file back into the table. Using a template can save
     you time because you won't have to specify the required columns for each table.
     Prepare the file template
       1. Export the table data.
       2. Define a plan to make sure data is unique before you import it. Use either primary keys or
        alternate keys. More information: Ensure uniqueness when you import data into a table
        from Excel or CSV
     Modify the file with your data
    Copy data from your Excel or CSV file into the template that you created in the previous step.
    Import the file
      1. On powerapps.com  select Tables in the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side
       panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
      2. Select Import > Import data from Excel.
      3. Select the tables where you want to import data, and then select Next.
      4. On the Import data page, select Upload, and choose your file. Follow the prompts to
       upload your file.
      5. After the file is uploaded and Mapping status indicates Mapping was successful, select
       Import from the top-right corner. Go to Troubleshoot mapping errors with Excel to
       navigate and fix any mapping errors.
       After the import finishes successfully, you'll see the total number of inserts and updates.
    New import from Excel (preview)
    [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
    The new import experience lets users import data directly from an Excel file into existing
    Dataverse tables using a unified UI. This experience improves upon the original import method
    by offering:
       Assisted mapping: Uses vector-based search to provide more contextually relevant
       column mapping suggestions.
       Sheet selection: Users can choose which sheet to import from within a multi-sheet Excel
       file.
       Notifications: Real-time feedback on import status, including success, in-progress, and
       error states.
       Error logs: Downloadable logs to help users self-diagnose and resolve issues.
       Performance improvements: Asynchronous ingestion offers better reliability and speed
       for large files.
            ） Important
                 This is a preview feature.
                 Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                 functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use   , and are
                 available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
                 provide feedback.
         Prerequisites
         To use the feature a Power Platform admin must enable the "Import Excel to existing table
         with assisted mapping" environment setting in the Power Platform admin center. Select the
         environment, and then select Settings > Product > Features and enable the "Import Excel to
         existing table with assisted mapping" setting.
            ７ Note
            The Import Excel to existing table with assisted mapping environment setting is being
            removed from the Power Platform admin center. This feature is currently being improved
            and that setting is no longer used.
         Import from Excel (preview) steps
            1. Go to the table you want to import data to, and then on the command bar select Import
               > Import from Excel (Preview).
      2. Upload your Excel file and select the sheet to import.
      3. Map columns. A primary key is required if you want to update existing records in the
       table. If no primary key is selected ("None" option), then all records from the Excel sheet
       or CSV file are added as new records.
      4. Review the summary and select Import.
    Monitor the import status from notifications:
       In progress: Ongoing import activity with the message Your data is importing displayed.
       Success: Data was processed or indexed with the message Upload completed displayed.
       Error: Upload completed with some errors displayed that includes a link to download
       logs for troubleshooting.
    Option 2: Import by bringing your own source file
    If you're an advanced user and know the required columns for a given table for Dataverse
    tables, define your own Excel or CSV source file. Follow the steps in Import the file.
    Troubleshoot mapping errors with Excel
    If you get mapping errors after you upload your file, select Map status. Take the following
    steps to inspect and rectify the column mapping errors.
      1. Use the drop-down menu on the right, under Show, to walk through the Unmapped
       columns, Fields with error, or Required Fields.
         Tip
          Depending on whether you get a Warning or an Error, inspect Unmapped
          columns or Fields with error through the drop-down menu in Column
          Mappings.
          Use the upsert (Update or Insert) logic to either update the row, if it already
          exists, or to insert a new row.
      2. After you resolve all the errors and warnings, select Save Changes in the top-right corner.
       You'll go back to the Import Data screen.
      3. When the Mapping status column shows Mapping was successful, select Import from
       the top-right corner.
    When the Import completed successfully message appears, the total inserts and updates are
    displayed.
    Ensure uniqueness when you import data into a table from
    Excel or CSV
    Dataverse tables use a primary key to uniquely identify rows within a Dataverse table. The
    primary key for a Dataverse table is a globally unique identifier (GUID). It forms the default
    basis for row identification. Data operations, like importing data into Dataverse tables, surface
    the default primary keys.
         Example:
         The primary key for an Account table is accountid.
         Sometimes, a primary key might not work when you integrate data from an external source.
         Use Dataverse to define alternate keys that uniquely identify a row in place of the primary key.
         Example:
         For an Account table, you might set transactioncurrencyid as an alternate key by using a
         natural key-based identification. For example, use US Dollar instead of the GUID value
         88c6c893-5b45-e811-a953-000d3a33bcb9 shown previously. You can also choose currency
         symbol or currency name as keys. More information: Define alternate keys using Power Apps
         portal
         You can still use primary keys as identifiers after you specify alternate keys. In the preceding
         sample, the first file is still valid if GUIDs are valid data.
         Export data
         Export data from a single table in a comma-separated value (CSV) format.
            1. Sign into Power Apps  , on the left navigation pane select Tables. If the item isn’t in the
              side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            2. Select Export > Export data.
            3. Select the table from which you want to export data, and then select Export data.
       4. After the export finishes successfully, select Download exported data to download the
        CSV file to the download folder specified in your web browser.
      ７ Note
      Exports have a 12 minute time limit. If the volume of data exported exceeds 12 minutes
      the export will fail. If this occurs, export data in smaller segments.
     Unsupported data types and fields
     The following data types aren't currently supported for import or export.
        Timezone
        Choices (multiselect)
        Image
           File
       The following fields are system fields and aren't supported for import and export.
           Ownerid
           Createdby
           Createdonbehalfby
           Createdon
           Modifiedby
           Modifiedonbehalfby
           Modifiedon
           Overriddencreatedon
         ７ Note
         Get Data from Excel and Export Data features are currently not included in the Power Apps
         Developer Plan.
       Import using a connector
       Use a connector to import data from a selection of many different sources, such as Azure, SQL
       Server database, SharePoint, Access, OData, and more. More information: Create and use
       dataflows in Power Apps
       See also
       Tables in Dataverse
        Last updated on 01/16/2026
     Create and use dataflows in Power Apps
     With advanced data preparation available in Power Apps, you can create a collection of data
     called a dataflow, which you can then use to connect with business data from various sources,
     clean the data, transform it, and then load it to Microsoft Dataverse or your organization’s
     Azure Data Lake Gen2 storage account.
     A dataflow is a collection of tables that are created and managed in environments in the Power
     Apps service. You can add and edit tables in your dataflow, as well as manage data refresh
     schedules, directly from the environment in which your dataflow was created.
     Once you create a dataflow in the Power Apps portal, you can get data from it using the
     Dataverse connector or Power BI Desktop Dataflow connector, depending on which destination
     you chose when creating the dataflow.
     There are three primary steps to using a dataflow:
       1. Author the dataflow in the Power Apps portal. You select the destination to load the
        output data to, the source to get the data from, and the Power Query steps to transform
        the data using Microsoft tools that are designed to make doing so straightforward.
       2. Schedule dataflow runs. This is the frequency in which the Power Platform Dataflow
        should refresh the data that your dataflow will load and transform.
       3. Use the data you loaded to the destination storage. You can build apps, flows, Power BI
        reports, and dashboards or connect directly to the dataflow’s Common Data Model folder
        in your organization’s lake using Azure data services like Azure Data Factory, Azure
        Databricks, or any other service that supports the Common Data Model folder standard.
     The following sections look at each of these steps so you can become familiar with the tools
     provided to complete each step.
     Create a dataflow
     Dataflows are created in one environment. Therefore, you'll only be able to see and manage
     them from that environment. In addition, individuals who want to get data from your dataflow
     must have access to the environment in which you created it.
      ） Important
         Creating dataflows is currently not available with Power Apps Developer Plan
         licenses.
        The Firefox web browser currently isn't supported for the "Download refresh history
        file" action in Power Apps dataflows. More information: You receive the error
        message "There was a problem refreshing the dataflow"
      1. Sign in to Power Apps, and verify which environment you're in, find the environment
       switcher near the right side of the command bar.
      2. On the left navigation pane, select Dataflows. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
       select …More and then select the item you want.
      3. Select New dataflow. On the New Dataflow page, enter a Name for the dataflow. By
       default, dataflows store tables in Dataverse. Select Analytical entities only if you want
       tables to be stored in your organization's Azure Data Lake storage account. Select Create.
        ） Important
        There's only one owner of any dataflow—the person who created it. Only the owner
        can edit the dataflow. Authorization and access to data created by the dataflow
        depend on the destination you loaded data to. Data loaded into Dataverse will be
        available via the Dataverse Connector and requires the person accessing the data to
        be authorized to Dataverse. Data loaded into your organization’s Azure Data Lake
        Gen2 storage account is accessible via the Power Platform Dataflow connector and
        access to it requires membership within the environment it was created in.
      4. On the Choose data source page, select the data source where the tables are stored. The
       selection of data sources displayed allows you to create dataflow tables.
                                            
      5. After you select a data source, you’re prompted to provide the connection settings,
       including the account to use when connecting to the data source. Select Next.
       6. Once connected, you select the data to use for your table. When you choose data and a
        source, the Power Platform Dataflow service will subsequently reconnect to the data
        source in order to keep the data in your dataflow refreshed, at the frequency you select
        later in the setup process.
     Now that you've selected the data to use in the table, you can use the dataflow editor to shape
     or transform that data into the format necessary for use in your dataflow.
     Use the dataflow editor to shape or transform data
     You can shape your data selection into a form that works best for your table using a Power
     Query editing experience, similar to the Power Query Editor in Power BI Desktop. To learn more
     about Power Query, see Query overview in Power BI Desktop.
     If you want to see the code that Query Editor is creating with each step, or if you want to create
     your own shaping code, you can use the advanced editor.
     Dataflows and the Common Data Model
     Dataflows tables include new tools to easily map your business data to the Common Data
     Model, enrich it with Microsoft and non-Microsoft data, and gain simplified access to machine
     learning. These new capabilities can be leveraged to provide intelligent and actionable insights
     into your business data. Once you’ve completed any transformations in the edit queries step
     described below, you can map columns from your data source tables to standard table
     columns as defined by the Common Data Model. Standard tables have a known schema
     defined by the Common Data Model.
     For more information about this approach, and about the Common Data Model, see The
     Common Data Model.
     To leverage the Common Data Model with your dataflow, select the Map to Standard
     transformation in the Edit Queries dialog. In the Map tables screen that appears, select the
     standard table that you want to map.
     When you map a source column to a standard column, the following occurs:
       1. The source column takes on the standard column name (the column is renamed if the
        names are different).
       2. The source column gets the standard column data type.
     To keep the Common Data Model standard table, all standard columns that aren't mapped get
     Null values.
     All source columns that aren't mapped remain as is to ensure that the result of the mapping is
     a standard table with custom columns.
     Once you’ve completed your selections and your table and its data settings are complete,
     you’re ready for the next step, which is selecting the refresh frequency of your dataflow.
     Set the refresh frequency
     Once your tables have been defined, you should schedule the refresh frequency for each of
     your connected data sources.
     Dataflows use a data refresh process to keep data up to date. In the Power Platform Dataflow
     authoring tool, you can choose to refresh your dataflow manually or automatically on a
     scheduled interval of your choice.
     Schedule a refresh automatically
       1. Select Refresh automatically.
       2. Enter the dataflow frequency:
           Frequency-based refresh. Set how often in 30-minute increments, start date, and
           time in UTC.
           Refresh on specific days and times. Choose time zone, frequency (daily or weekly)
           and time of day in 30-minute increments.
       3. Select Publish.
     Some organizations might want to use their own storage for creation and management of
     dataflows. You can integrate dataflows with Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 if you follow the
     requirements to set up the storage account properly. More information: Connect Azure Data
     Lake Storage Gen2 for dataflow storage
     Troubleshooting data connections
     There might be occasions when connecting to data sources for dataflows runs into issues. This
     section provides troubleshooting tips when issues occur.
        Salesforce connector. Using a trial account for Salesforce with dataflows results in a
        connection failure with no information provided. To resolve this, use a production
        Salesforce account or a developer account for testing.
        SharePoint connector. Make sure you supply the root address of the SharePoint site,
        without any subfolders or documents. For example, use a link similar to
        https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/ObjectModel.
          JSON File connector. Currently you can connect to a JSON file using basic authentication
          only. For example, a URL similar to https://XXXXX.blob.core.windows.net/path/file.json?
          sv=2019-01-01&si=something&sr=c&sig=123456abcdefg is currently not supported.
          Azure Synapse Analytics. Dataflows don't currently support Microsoft Entra
          authentication for Azure Synapse Analytics. Use basic authentication for this scenario.
        ７ Note
        If you use data loss prevention (DLP) policies to block the HTTP with Microsoft Entra
        (preauthorized) connector then SharePoint and OData connectors will fail. The HTTP with
        Microsoft Entra (preauthorized) connector needs to be allowed in DLP policies for
        SharePoint and OData connectors to work.
      Troubleshoot the error: Connection to Dataverse failed. Please
      check the link below on how to fix this issue
      Users might receive an error message if the connection they're using for export requires a fix.
      In this case, the user receives an error message that states Connection to Dataverse failed.
      Please check the link below on how to fix this issue.
      To resolve this issue:
        1. In Power Apps (make.powerapps.com), select Connections from the left navigation pane.
          If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
        2. Locate the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connection.
        3. Select the Fix connection link in the Status column, and follow the instructions on your
          screen.
      After the fix completes, retry the export.
      You receive the error message "There was a problem
      refreshing the dataflow"
      This error occurs when you try to refresh the dataflow while using the Firefox web browser. To
      work around this issue use a different web browser, such as Microsoft Edge or Google Chrome.
      Next steps
      The following articles are useful for further information and scenarios when using dataflows:
         Add data to a table in Dataverse
         Using an on-premises data gateway in Power Platform dataflows
         Connect Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 for dataflow storage
         Use dataflows in solutions
      For more information about the Common Data Model:
         Common Data Model - overview
         Learn more about the Common Data Model schema and tables on GitHub
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
     Dataverse long term data retention
     overview
     Microsoft Dataverse supports custom retention policies to securely retain unlimited data long
     term in a cost-efficient way. While Dataverse can support your business growth with no limit on
     active data, you might want to consider moving inactive data to the Dataverse long term
     retention store.
       ） Important
       The Power Platform environment where the retention policy resides must be a Managed
       Environment. This also applies to Dynamics 365 customers who will be required to
       upgrade to a Managed Environment if the environment isn't already a Managed
       Environment.
       Customers who don't meet this requirement can continue to create data retention
       policies, but the policies are disabled.
     Watch this video to learn about Dataverse long term data retention.
     https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=c34fea68-46b2-4486-b9c1-
     a3ef9d01b4f9&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fdata-
     platform%2Fdata-retention-overview
     Business application data lifecycle
     Consider the business application data lifecycle in three stages. First active data, which over
     time transitions to inactive data, and finally transitions to deleted data.
                                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
            Stage                 Description
            1. Active data        Data is readily available and transformed via apps.
                                  Accessed across all application workflows.
                                  Also referred to as live data.
            2. Inactive data      Data is immutable and read-only.
                                  Is stored in long term retention.
                                  Has limited access. Retained for compliance, audit, and legal discovery.
            3. Deleted data       Permanently deleted. Data lifecycle is completed.
           Dataverse delivers native platform support for long-term retention of data. It helps your
           organization get immediate and ongoing benefits:
                 Securely retain the historical application data long term for audit, legal, and regulatory
                 requirements.
                 Access the read-only data for limited inquiry purposes.
                 Reduce database capacity consumed and save money on inactive data.
                 Avoid IT investments required to build and maintain custom solutions for long-term
                 retention of historical application data.
           How it works
           Application admins set up custom policies for a table with criterion to retain data long term.
           The retained data is never moved out of Dataverse, the data is stored in Dataverse long term
           retention. The data is always secured with Dataverse security backed by Microsoft Entra ID.
              ） Important
         Once data is retained with Dataverse long term retention it can't be moved back to
         the Dataverse live (active) application state.
         When a retention policy is run, the process makes API requests in Microsoft Power
         Platform. These requests are counted towards the existing API requests available
         with your plan. More information: Requests limits and allocations
     Dataverse provides read-only access to the retained data via:
        Advanced Find within an application.
        Power Automate cloud flow.
        Dataverse OData APIs for custom screens.
     Types of data retained long term
     Dataverse standard (except system) tables, custom tables, along with attachments and images,
     can be retained in Dataverse long term storage.
      ７ Note
      Currently, audit tables and elastic tables aren't supported for long term retention.
     Admins set retention policies on tables when the application maker enables long term
     retention for the table. When a maker enables retention on a parent root table, it also enables
     retention for all child tables and associated attachments and images.
     Long term data retention and existing delete action and
     plugins
     All the existing delete action cascade relationships and plugins for tables are executed when a
     data retention policy is run on the table. In addition, the retain action can be used to trigger
     custom behavior. Application makers can write custom plugins for the retain action.
     More information: Long-term data retention
     Storage capacity reports
     With Dataverse long term retention, data is never moved out of Dataverse. The reported
     capacity in the existing Power Platform admin reports includes both live (active) and retained
      (inactive) data in GBs.
          Database capacity details reported:
           Database capacity reported is the sum of the live and retained data. The overall
           database capacity consumed is reduced depending on the proportion of the data rows
           retained during a policy run.
          Notice that the policy run takes 72 to 96 hours to complete and there's an additional 24
          hours afterward for the database capacity reports to appear.
          When available, the reports display two entries for a table that is enabled for long term
          retention:
                        1
           Table, such as Case  or Contact.
           Table-Retained, such as Case-Retained and Contact-Retained.
          1
           The case table requires a Dynamics 365 app, such as Dynamics 365 Customer Service.
          File capacity details reported:
           If there are associated file attachments retained long term, the file capacity reflects the
           sum of the live and retained data. There will be no reduction or savings observed with
           file capacity after running a retention policy, which involved file attachments.
      Log capacity reports aren't currently available.
      Viewing the capacity reports
      Imagine a nonproduction scenario where all the live data for the case and contacts tables are
      retained with Dataverse long term retention. After the long term retention policy is successfully
      completed, there are entries for Case-Retained and Contact-Retained in the report. The
      reduction in database capacity consumed depends on the number of rows and column data
      types involved in the retention process. The reports could take a few days to a week to reflect
      the fully reduced savings in production environments. For nonproduction environments, the
      reports could take up to two weeks to reflect the savings.
