      Last updated on 02/23/2026
       Transform Azure Synapse Link for
       Dataverse data with Apache Spark
       Article • 08/25/2022
       You can use the Azure Synapse Link to connect your Microsoft Dataverse data to Azure
       Synapse Analytics to explore your data and accelerate time to insight. This article shows
       you how to transform your Dataverse data using the Apache Spark engine available in
       your Synapse workspace.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Microsoft Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data
        lake. The service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data
        to Azure Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
       Prerequisites
       This section describes the prerequisites necessary to transform Dataverse data with
       Apache Spark after using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service.
          Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you have already
          exported data from Dataverse by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse.
          Storage Account Access. You must be granted one of the following roles for the
          storage account: Storage Blob Data Reader, Storage Blob Data Contributor, or
          Storage Blob Data Owner.
          Synapse administrator. You must be granted the Synapse Administrator role
          access within Synapse studio.
       Transform your data with an Apache Spark
       notebook
         1. In Power Apps, select your desired Azure Synapse Link from the list, and then
          select Go to Azure Synapse workspace.
       2. Expand Databases, select your Dataverse container. Your exported tables are
        displayed under the Tables directory on the left sidebar.
       3. Right-click the desired table and select New notebook > Load to DataFrame.
       4. Attach the notebook to an Apache Spark pool by selecting a pool from the drop-
        down menu. If you do not have an Apache Spark pool, select Manage pools to
        create one.
       5. Add code cells to transform your data. Run individual cells by selecting the play
        button at the left of each cell or run all the cells in succession by selecting Run all
        from the top bar.
      See also
      Blog: Announcing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
      What is Apache Spark in Azure HDInsight
       Copy Dataverse data into Azure SQL
       Article • 02/08/2023
       Use the Azure Synapse Link to connect your Microsoft Dataverse data to Azure Synapse
       Analytics to explore your data and accelerate time to insight. This article shows you how
       to run Azure Synapse pipelines or Azure Data Factory to copy data from Azure Data Lake
       Storage Gen2 to an Azure SQL Database with incremental updates feature enabled in
       Azure Synapse Link.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Microsoft Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data
        lake. The service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data
        to Azure Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics. This template is a code
        sample. We encourage you to use this template as guidance to test out the
        functionality of retrieving data from Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 to Azure SQL
        Database using the pipeline provided.
       Prerequisites
         1. Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you've already met the
          prerequisites to create an Azure Synapse Link with Azure Data Lake. More
          information: Prerequisites for an Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse with your Azure
          Data Lake
         2. Create an Azure Synapse Workspace or Azure Data Factory under the same
          Microsoft Entra tenant as your Power Apps tenant.
         3. Create an Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse with the incremental folder update
          enabled to set the time interval. More information: Query and analyze the
          incremental updates
         4. Microsoft.EventGrid provider needs to be registered for trigger. More information:
          Azure portal. Note: If you are using this feature in Azure Synapse Analytics, ensure
          that your subscription is also registered with Data Factory resource provider,
          otherwise you'll get an error stating that the creation of an "Event Subscription"
          failed.
         5. Create an Azure SQL database with the Allow Azure services and resources to
          access this server property enabled. More information: What should I know when
          setting up my Azure SQL Database (PaaS)?
         6. Create and configure an Azure integration runtime. More information: Create
          Azure integration runtime - Azure Data Factory & Azure Synapse
               ） Important
               Using this template might incur additional costs. These costs are related to the
               usage of Azure Data Factory or Synapse workspace pipeline and are billed on a
               monthly basis. The cost of using pipelines mainly depends on the time interval for
               incremental update and the data volumes. To plan and manage the cost of using
               this feature, go to: Monitor costs at pipeline level with cost analysis
               It's important to take these additional costs into consideration when deciding to
               use this template as they are not optional and must be paid in order to continue
               using this feature.
             Use the solution template
              Synapse Analytics
                  1. Go to the Azure portal    and open Azure Synapse workspace.
                  2. Select Integrate > Browse gallery.
                  3. Select Copy Dataverse data into Azure SQL using Synapse Link from the
                     integration gallery.
             Configure the solution template
                1. Create a linked service to Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2, which is connected to
                  Dataverse using the appropriate authentication type. To do this, select Test
                  connection to validate the connectivity, and then select Create.
                2. Similar to the previous steps, create a linked service to Azure SQL Database where
                  Dataverse data will be synced.
       3. Once Inputs are configured, select Use this template.
                                           
       4. Now a trigger can be added to automate this pipeline, so that the pipeline can
        always process files when incremental updates are completed periodically. Go to
        Manage > Trigger, and create a trigger using the following properties:
           Name: Enter a name for the trigger, such as triggerModelJson.
           Type: Storage events.
           Azure subscription: Select the subscription that has Azure Data Lake Storage
           Gen2.
           Storage account name: Select the storage that has Dataverse data.
           Container name: Select the container created by Azure Synapse Link.
           Blob path ends with: /model.json
           Event: Blob created.
           Ignore empty blobs: Yes.
           Start trigger: Enable Start trigger on creation.
       5. Select Continue to proceed to the next screen.
       6. On the next screen, the trigger validates the matching files. Select OK to create the
        trigger.
       7. Associate the trigger with a pipeline. Go to the pipeline imported earlier, and then
        select Add trigger > New/Edit.
                                           
       8. Select the trigger in the earlier step, and then select Continue to proceed to the
        next screen where the trigger validates the matching files.
       9. Select Continue to proceed to the next screen.
       10. In the Trigger Run Parameter section, enter the below parameters, and then select
        OK.
           Container: @split(triggerBody().folderPath,'/')[0]
           Folder: @split(triggerBody().folderPath,'/')[1]
       11. After associating the trigger with the pipeline, select Validate all.
       12. Once validation succeeds, select Publish All.
                                           
       13. Select Publish to publish all the changes.
      Add an event subscription filter
      To ensure that the trigger fires only when model.json creation is complete, advanced
      filters need to be updated for the trigger’s event subscription. An event is registered
      against the storage account the first time the trigger runs.
       1. Once a trigger run completes, go to storage account > Events > Event
        Subscriptions.
       2. Select the event that was registered for the model.json trigger.
       3. Select the Filters tab, and then select Add new filter.
       4. Create the filter:
           Key: subject
           Operator: String does not end with
           Value: /blobs/model.json
       5. Remove the CopyBlob parameter from data.api Value array.
       6. Select Save to deploy the additional filter.
      See also
      Blog: Announcing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
       Visualize Azure Synapse Link for
       Dataverse data with Power BI
       Article • 02/15/2022
       You can use the Azure Synapse Link to connect your Microsoft Dataverse data to Azure
       Synapse Analytics to explore your data and accelerate time to insight. This article shows
       you how to generate a Power BI report by connecting to the serverless SQL endpoint
       from your Azure Synapse Analytics workspace.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Microsoft Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data
        lake. The service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data
        to Azure Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
       Prerequisites
       This section describes the prerequisites necessary to access Dataverse choices with
       Power BI after using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service.
          Power BI Desktop. Get it now
          Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you have already
          exported data from Dataverse by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse.
          Storage Account Access. You must be granted one of the following roles for the
          storage account: Storage Blob Data Reader, Storage Blob Data Contributor, or
          Storage Blob Data Owner.
       Connect to your Azure Synapse Analytics
       workspace to Power BI
         1. Open Power BI Desktop.
         2. Select Get data > More....
         3. Select Azure > Azure Synapse Analytics (SQL DW) > Connect.
       4. Go to your Azure Synapse Analytics workspace and copy the Serverless SQL
        endpoint.
       5. Paste the endpoint for the Server. Select DirectQuery for the Data Connectivity
        mode. Select OK.
       6. If prompted, sign in with your Microsoft Account.
       7. Select the container and the preferred table from the Navigator, and then select
        Load. Optionally, expand default to access tables created with an Apache Spark
        notebook.
       ７ Note
       If you receive a credentials error, go to File > Options and settings > Data source
       settings and clear the permissions for the serverless SQL endpoint. Repeat the
       above steps.
       8. Select fields from the Fields pane to create a simple table or create other
        visualizations.
      See also
      Blog: Announcing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
       Copy exported Dataverse data to
       dedicated SQL pool
       Article • 02/15/2022
       After creating a continuous pipeline of data from Dataverse to your Synapse workspace
       with Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse, you can copy the data to dedicated SQL pool
       with Synapse Pipelines.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Microsoft Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data
        lake. The service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data
        to Azure Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
       Prerequisites
       This section describes the prerequisites necessary to copy your Dataverse data to
       dedicated SQL pool after using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service.
          Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you've already
          exported Dataverse data by using Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse.
          Storage Account Access. You must be granted one of the following roles for the
          storage account: Storage Blob Data Reader, Storage Blob Data Contributor, or
          Storage Blob Data Owner.
          Synapse administrator. You must be granted the Synapse Administrator role
          access within Synapse studio.
          Dedicated SQL Pool. This guide assumes that you've already created a dedicated
          SQL pool. You can create a dedicated SQL pool under the Manage tab in your
          Synapse workspace.
       Copy the exported Dataverse data to dedicated
       SQL pool
         1. Navigate to your Azure Synapse Analytics workspace.
       2. Open the Develop tab and create a new Data flow. Turn on data flow debug. This
        can take several minutes to complete.
       3. Create a Source and specify the Source type as Workspace DB and select the
        Database that contains the Dataverse data and Table you want to copy.
       4. Create a Sink and specify the Sink type as Inline and Inline dataset type as Azure
        Synapse Analytics. Select your dedicated SQL pool as the Linked service. If the
        dedicated SQL pool is not already a linked service, create a new connection.
       5. Under the Settings tab, Refresh the Schema Name. Select sys and for the Table
        name select all_columns. Optionally, configure the other settings.
       6. Navigate to the Integrate tab of the Synapse workspace and create a new Pipeline.
       7. Expand the Move & Transform activity and drag and drop Data flow into the
        workspace.
       8. Open the Settings and ensure that you have selected the data flow created in the
        previous steps.
       9. Run your pipeline. Optionally, Add trigger to specify a time for the pipeline to run.
      See also
      Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
      What is dedicated SQL pool
       Read the incremental updates of
       Dataverse data
       Article • 02/15/2022
       After creating a continuous pipeline of data from Microsoft Dataverse to your Synapse
       workspace with Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse, you can read the incremental updates
       of a specified time interval. Every Dataverse table exported with Azure Synapse Link for
       Dataverse contains a SinkModifiedOn column which can be used to get the incremental
       updates.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Microsoft Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data
        lake. The service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data
        to Azure Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
       Prerequisites
       This section describes the prerequisites necessary to read the incremental updates of
       your exported Dataverse data.
          Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you have already
          exported data from Dataverse by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse and
          that all tables are syncing with Append-only mode.
          Storage Account Access. You must be granted one of the following roles for the
          storage account: Storage Blob Data Reader, Storage Blob Data Contributor, or
          Storage Blob Data Owner.
          Synapse administrator. You must be granted the Synapse Administrator role
          access within Synapse studio.
       Read the Incremental Updates of your
       Dataverse data
         1. Navigate to your Azure Synapse Analytics workspace.
         2. Select Develop from the left side panel, then select + > SQL script.
          3. Paste the following SQL query and replace CONTAINER_NAME with the name of
            the container, TABLE_NAME with the name of the Dataverse table, and
            TIMESTAMP_START and TIMESTAMP_END with the time interval in UTC format
            (YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS).
             SQL
                  SELECT *  
                  FROM [CONTAINER_NAME].[dbo].[TABLE_NAME] 
                  WHERE [SinkModifiedOn] >= TIMESTAMP_START AND [SinkModifiedOn] <= 
              TIMESTAMP_END 
          4. Run the query and a table containing the incremental updates to the Dataverse
            table from the specified time interval will be displayed.
        See also
        Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
       Access Dataverse choices (option sets)
       with serverless SQL pool
       Article • 02/15/2022
       For columns that use Microsoft Dataverse Choices, choice values are written as an
       integer label and not a text label to maintain consistency during edits. The integer-to-
       text label mapping is stored in the Microsoft.Athena.TrickleFeedService/table-
       EntityMetadata.json file. This article covers how to access the integer-to-text label
       mapping using serverless SQL pool.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Microsoft Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data
        lake. The service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data
        to Azure Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
       Prerequisites
       This section describes the prerequisites necessary to consume Dataverse data with
       serverless SQL pool after using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service.
          Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse: This guide assumes that you have already
          exported data from Dataverse by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse with
          and Azure Synapse Analytics workspace.
          Storage Account Access. You must be granted one of the following roles for the
          storage account: Storage Blob Data Reader, Storage Blob Data Contributor, or
          Storage Blob Data Owner.
       Consuming Dataverse choices with serverless
       SQL pool
          1. Navigate to your Azure Synapse Analytics workspace.
          2. Select Develop from the left side panel, then select + > SQL script.
          3. Paste the following SQL query and replace <STORAGE_ACCOUNT> with the
            storage account name and <CONTAINER_NAME> with the name of the container.
          SQL
              SELECT [EntityName], [OptionSetName], [Option], [IsUserLocalizedLabel], 
          [LocalizedLabelLanguageCode], [LocalizedLabel] 
              FROM OPENROWSET ( 
                  BULK 
          'https://<STORAGE_ACCOUNT>.dfs.core.windows.net/<CONTAINER_NAME>/Microsoft.A
          thena.TrickleFeedService/*-EntityMetadata.json',  
                  FORMAT = 'csv',
                  FIELDTERMINATOR ='0x0b', 
                  FIELDQUOTE = '0x0b', 
                  ROWTERMINATOR = '0x0b' 
              ) WITH (doc nvarchar(max)) AS rows 
              CROSS APPLY OPENJSON(doc, '$.OptionSetMetadata') 
              WITH ( 
                      [EntityName] nvarchar(4000) '$.EntityName', 
                      [OptionSetName] nvarchar(4000) '$.OptionSetName', 
                      [Option] int '$.Option', 
                      [IsUserLocalizedLabel] nvarchar(4000) '$.IsUserLocalizedLabel', 
                      [LocalizedLabelLanguageCode] int '$.LocalizedLabelLanguageCode', 
                      [LocalizedLabel] nvarchar(4000) '$.LocalizedLabel' 
              ) 
          4. Run the query. A table containing the Dataverse choices is displayed.
          5. Join the Dataverse choices with your Dataverse table and store the view in a new
            database using a three-part naming convention - [database-name].[schema-name].
            [table-name].
        See also
        Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
        Quickstart: Use serverless SQL pool
        Export Dataverse data in Delta Lake format
        Use Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse to export your Microsoft Dataverse data in Delta Lake
        format. Delta Lake is the native format for Microsoft Fabric as well as many other tools like Azure
        Databricks. Exporting data in Delta lake format directly from Dataverse eliminates the need to
        have a separate Delta Lake conversion processes on your own and accelerates time to insight.
        This article provides information about this feature and shows you how to perform the following
        tasks:
              Explains Delta Lake and Parquet and why you should export data in this format.
              Export your Dataverse data to your Azure Synapse Analytics workspace in Delta Lake format
              with the Azure Synapse Link.
              Monitor your Azure Synapse Link and data conversion.
              View your data from Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2.
              View your data from Synapse Workspace.
              View your data in Microsoft Fabric.
        What is Delta Lake?
        Delta Lake is an open-source project that enables building a lakehouse architecture on top of
        data lakes. Delta Lake provides ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability)
        transactions, scalable metadata handling, and unifies streaming and batch data processing on
        top of existing data lakes. Azure Synapse Analytics is compatible with Linux Foundation Delta
        Lake. The current version of Delta Lake included with Azure Synapse has language support for
        Scala, PySpark, and .NET. More information: What is Delta Lake?. You can also learn more from
        the Introduction to Delta Tables video   .
        Apache Parquet is the baseline format for Delta Lake, enabling you to leverage the efficient
        compression and encoding schemes that are native to the format. Parquet file format uses
        column-wise compression. It's efficient and saves storage space. Queries that fetch specific
        column values need not read the entire row data thus improving performance. Therefore,
        serverless SQL pool needs less time and fewer storage requests to read the data.
        Why use Delta Lake?
              Scalability: Delta Lake is built on top of Open-source Apache license, which is designed to
              meet industry standards for handling large-scale data processing workloads.
        Reliability: Delta Lake provides ACID transactions, ensuring data consistency and reliability
        even in the face of failures or concurrent access.
        Performance: Delta Lake leverages the columnar storage format of Parquet, providing
        better compression and encoding techniques, which can lead to improved query
        performance compared to query CSV files.
        Cost-effective: The Delta Lake file format is a highly compressed data storage technology
        that offers significant potential storage savings for businesses. This format is specifically
        designed to optimize data processing and potentially reduce the total amount of data
        processed or running time required for on-demand computing.
        Data protection compliance: Delta Lake with Azure Synapse Link provides tools and
        features including soft-delete and hard-delete to comply various data privacy regulations,
        including General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
     How Delta Lake works with Azure Synapse Link
     for Dataverse?
     When setting up an Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse, you can enable the export to Delta Lake
     feature and connect with a Synapse workspace and Spark pool. Azure Synapse Link exports the
     selected Dataverse tables in CSV format at designated time intervals, processing them through a
     Delta Lake conversion Spark job. Upon the completion of this conversion process, CSV data is
     cleaned up for storage saving. Additionally, a series of maintenance jobs are scheduled to run on
     a daily basis, automatically performing compaction and vacuuming processes to merge and clean
     up data files to further optimize storage and improve query performance.
      ） Important
         If you're upgrading from CSV to Delta Lake with existing custom views, we recommend
         updating the script to replace all partitioned tables to non_partitioned. Do this by
         looking for instances of _partitioned and replace them with an empty string.
         For the Dataverse configuration, append-only is enabled by default to export CSV data
         in appendonly mode. The Delta Lake table will have an in-place update structure
         because the Delta Lake conversion comes with a periodic merge process.
         You need to provision a Spark pool (compute resources) in your own Azure
         subscription for Delta conversion. This Spark pool is used to perform periodic Delta
         conversions based on the time interval chosen by you.
         There are no costs incurred with the creation of Spark pools. Charges are only incurred
         once a Spark job is executed on the target Spark pool and the Spark instance is
         instantiated on demand. These costs are related to the usage of Azure Synapse
         workspace Spark and are billed monthly. The cost of conducting Spark computing
         mainly depends on the time interval for incremental update and the data volumes.
         More information: Azure Synapse Analytics pricing
         You need to create a Spark pool with the current version (go to the version table in In-
         place upgrade from previous versions). If you're using a previous Spark version,
         perform an in-place upgrade for your existing profiles. More information: In-place
         upgrade from previous versions
      ７ Note
      The Azure Synapse Link status in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) reflects the Delta Lake
      conversion state:
          Count shows the number of records in the Delta Lake table.
          Last synchronized on Datetime represents the last successful conversion timestamp.
          Sync status is shown as active once the data sync and Delta Lake conversion
         completes, indicating that the data is ready for consumption.
     Prerequisites
        Dataverse: You must have the Dataverse system administrator security role. Additionally,
        tables you want to export via Azure Synapse Link must have the Track changes property
        enabled. More information: Advanced options
        Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2: You must have an Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account
        and Owner and Storage Blob Data Contributor role access. Your storage account must
        enable Hierarchical namespace and public network access for both initial setup and delta
        sync. Allow storage account key access is required only for the initial setup.
        Synapse workspace: You must have a Synapse workspace and Owner role in access
        control(IAM) and the Synapse Administrator role access within the Synapse Studio. The
        Synapse workspace must be in the same region as your Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
        account. The storage account must be added as a linked service within the Synapse Studio.
        To create a Synapse workspace, go to Creating a Synapse workspace.
        An Apache Spark pool in the connected Azure Synapse workspace with the current Apache
        Spark version (go to version requirements) using this recommended Spark Pool
        configuration. For information about how to create a Spark Pool, go to Create new Apache
        Spark pool.
        The Microsoft Dynamics 365 minimum version requirement to use this feature is 9.2.22082.
        More information: Opt in to early access updates
     Recommended Spark Pool configuration
     This configuration can be considered a bootstrap step for average use cases.
        Node size: small (4 vCores / 32 GB)
        Autoscale: Enabled
                                  1
        Number of nodes: 3 to 10 (or 20 if needed.  More information below.)
        Automatic pausing: Enabled
        Number of minutes idle: 5
        Apache Spark: 3.5 (go to version requirements for latest)
        Dynamically allocate executors: Enabled
        Default number of executors: 1 to 9
      ） Important
          Use the Spark pool exclusively for Delta Lake conversation operation with Synapse Link
          for Dataverse. For optimal reliability and performance, avoid running other Spark jobs
          using the same Spark pool.
          You might need to increase the number of nodes of the Spark pool if you expect a
          large number of rows to be processed. If the size of the Spark pool is insufficient, Delta
          conversion jobs might fail
          The same Spark pool is used by the system to run a nightly job that compacts Delta
          files in the lake between 11 PM and 6 AM local time. The system determines the night
          time to run this job based on the location of your Dataverse environment. You can't
          provide a specific time window. This option reduces the size of Delta files by merging
          files known as "compaction." In rare cases, this job might interfere with the incremental
          conversion job. You can increase the number of nodes to 20 in case you notice these
          failures.
          You're only charged for the spark pool nodes actually utilized. Increasing the number
          of nodes might not result in higher charges.
        Connect Dataverse to Synapse workspace and export
        data in Delta Lake format
           1. Sign into Power Apps   and select the environment you want.
           2. On the left navigation pane, select Link data, and then select Other Links. If the item isn’t in
             the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
           3. On the command bar, select + New link, and then select Azure Synapse.
           4. Select Connect to your Azure Synapse Analytics workspace, and then select the
             Subscription, Resource group, and Workspace name.
           5. Select Use Spark pool for processing, and then select the precreated Spark pool and
             Storage account.
           6. Select Next.
           7. Add the tables you want to export, and then select Advanced.
           8. Optionally, select Show advanced configuration settings and enter the time interval, in
             minutes, for how often the incremental updates should be captured.
           9. Select Save.
        Monitor your Azure Synapse Link and data conversion
         1. Select the Azure Synapse Link you want, and then select Go to Azure Synapse Analytics
          workspace on the command bar.
         2. Select Monitor > Apache Spark applications. More information: Use Synapse Studio to
          monitor your Apache Spark applications
      View your data from Synapse workspace
         1. Select the Azure Synapse Link you want, and then select Go to Azure Synapse Analytics
          workspace on the command bar.
         2. Expand Lake Databases on the left pane, select dataverse-
          environmentNameorganizationUniqueName, and then expand Tables. All Parquet tables are
          listed and available for analysis with the naming convention DataverseTableName.
          (Non_partitioned Table).
        ７ Note
        Don't use tables with the naming convention _partitioned. When you choose Delta parquet
        as the format, tables with the _partition naming convention are used as staging tables and
        removed after they're used by the system.
      View your data from Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
         1. Select the Azure Synapse Link you want, and then select Go to Azure data lake on the
          command bar.
         2. Select the Containers under Data Storage.
         3. Select *dataverse- *environmentName-organizationUniqueName. All parquet files are stored
          in the deltalake folder.
      In-place upgrade from previous versions
      Current versions and requirements
      The following table shows the current and previous versions for Azure Synapse Link with Delta
      Lake. When you upgrade or create a new configuration, use the current versions listed below.
                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
          Component        Current version     Previous version     Status       Reference link
          Apache Spark     3.5                 3.4                  3.4 retired  Apache Spark 3.4 runtime
          Delta Lake       3.0                 2.4                  -            Delta Lake compatibility
        Upgrade from Apache Spark 3.4 to 3.5
        In accordance with the Synapse runtime for Apache Spark lifecycle policy, Azure Synapse runtime
        for Apache Spark 3.4 is retired. After the end of the support date, the retired runtimes are
        unavailable for new Spark pools and existing workflows with Spark 3.4 pools won't be executed
        and metadata temporarily remains in the Synapse workspace. More information: Azure Synapse
        Runtime for Apache Spark 3.4.
        To ensure that your existing Synapse Link profiles continue to process data, upgrade your
        Synapse Link profiles using the in-place upgrade process here.
        Prerequisites for upgrade
              You must have an existing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse Delta lake profile running with
              a previous Apache Spark version.
              You must create a new Synapse Spark pool with the current Spark version (go to versions
              and requirements table), using the same or higher nodes hardware configuration within the
              same Synapse workspace. For information about how to create a Spark pool, go to Create
              new Apache Spark pool. This Spark pool should be created independent of your existing
              pool - don't delete your current Spark pool or create the new pool with the same name.
        Upgrade steps
            1. Sign in to Power Apps and select your preferred environment.
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Link data, and then select Other Links. If the item isn't in
              the left navigation pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. If you're using a retired Spark version, an error message indicating that support has ended
              appears. Select the upgrade button in the ribbon to begin the upgrade process.
     4. In the upgrade dialog, select the available Spark pool with the current version from the
      dropdown list.
     5. Select Update to complete the upgrade.
     ７ Note
       The Spark pool upgrade occurs only when a new Delta Lake conversion Spark job is
       triggered. Ensure you have at least one data change after selecting Update.
       After selecting Update, the upgrade process can take up to 48 hours to complete due
       to the cache. During this time, the old Spark pool continues to be used for Delta Lake
       conversion until the upgrade is fully applied in the backend. Don't delete the old Spark
       pool until you have confirmed that the new Spark pool is being used for Delta Lake
       conversion jobs. If the new Spark pool isn't used for Delta Lake conversion after two
       days, contact Microsoft to get support.
    Related articles
     What is Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse?
      Last updated on 07/06/2026
             Ingest exported Dataverse data with
             Azure Data Factory
             Article • 04/13/2022
             After exporting data from Microsoft Dataverse to Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with
             Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse, you can use Azure Data Factory to create dataflows,
             transform your data, and run analysis.
               ７ Note
               Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The
               service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data to Azure
               Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
             This article shows you how to perform the following tasks:
                1. Set the Data Lake Storage Gen2 storage account with the Dataverse data as a
                  source in a Data Factory dataflow.
                2. Transform the Dataverse data in Data Factory with a dataflow.
                3. Set the Data Lake Storage Gen2 storage account with the Dataverse data as a sink
                  in a Data Factory dataflow.
                4. Run your dataflow by creating a pipeline.
             Prerequisites
             This section describes the prerequisites necessary to ingest exported Dataverse data
             with Data Factory.
                  Azure roles. The user account that's used to sign in to Azure must be a member of
                  the contributor or owner role, or an administrator of the Azure subscription. To view
                  the permissions that you have in the subscription, go to the Azure portal   , select
                  your username in the upper-right corner, select ..., and then select My
                  permissions. If you have access to multiple subscriptions, select the appropriate
                  one. To create and manage child resources for Data Factory in the Azure portal—
                  including datasets, linked services, pipelines, triggers, and integration runtimes—
                  you must belong to the Data Factory Contributor role at the resource group level
                  or above.
                 Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you've already
                 exported Dataverse data by using Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. In this
                 example, the account table data is exported to the data lake.
                 Azure Data Factory. This guide assumes that you've already created a data factory
                 under the same subscription and resource group as the storage account
                 containing the exported Dataverse data.
            Set the Data Lake Storage Gen2 storage
            account as a source
               1. Open Azure Data Factory   and select the data factory that is on the same
                 subscription and resource group as the storage account containing your exported
                 Dataverse data. Then select Create data flow from the home page.
               2. Turn on Data flow debug mode and select your preferred time to live. This might
                 take up to 10 minutes, but you can proceed with the following steps.
               3. Select Add Source.
               4. Under Source settings, do the following:
                      Output stream name: Enter the name you want.
            Source type: Select Inline.
            Inline dataset type: Select Common Data Model.
            Linked Service: Select the storage account from the drop-down menu, and
            then link a new service by providing your subscription details and leaving all
            default configurations.
            Sampling: If you want to use all your data, select Disable.
        5. Under Source options, do the following:
            Metadata format: Select Model.json.
            Root location: Enter the container name in the first box (Container) or
            Browse for the container name and select OK.
            Entity: Enter the table name or Browse for the table.
        6. Check the Projection tab to ensure that your schema has been imported
          successfully. If you do not see any columns, select Schema options and check the
          Infer drifted column types option. Configure the formatting options to match your
          data set then select Apply.
        7. You can view your data in the Data preview tab to ensure the Source creation was
          complete and accurate.
       Transform your Dataverse data
       After setting the exported Dataverse data in the Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account
       as a source in the Data Factory dataflow, there are many possibilities for transforming
       your data. More information: Azure Data Factory
       Follow these instructions to create a rank for the each row by the revenue field of the
       account table.
         1. Select + in the lower-right corner of the previous transformation, and then search
          for and select Rank.
         2. On the Rank settings tab, do the following:
             Output stream name: Enter the name you want, such as Rank1.
             Incoming Stream: Select the source name you want. In this case, the source
             name from the previous step.
             Options: Leave the options unchecked.
             Rank column: Enter the name of the rank column generated.
             Sort conditions: Select the revenue column and sort by Descending order.
         3. You can view your data in the data preview tab where you will find the new
          revenueRank column at the right-most position.
       Set the Data Lake Storage Gen2 storage
       account as a sink
       Ultimately, you must set a sink for your dataflow. Follow these instructions to place your
       transformed data as a delimited text file in the data lake.
         1. Select + in the lower-right corner of the previous transformation, and then search
          for and select Sink.
         2. On the Sink tab, do the following:
             Output stream name: Enter the name you want, such as Sink1.
             Incoming stream: Select the source name you want. In this case, the source
             name from the previous step.
           Sink type: Select DelimitedText.
           Linked service: Select your Data Lake Storage Gen2 storage container that
           has the data you exported by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
           service.
       3. On the Settings tab, do the following:
           Folder path: Enter the container name in the first box (File system) or Browse
           for the container name and select OK.
           File name option: Select output to single file.
           Output to single file: Enter a file name, such as ADFOutput
           Leave all other default settings.
        4. On the Optimize tab, set the Partition option to Single partition.
        5. You can view your data in the Data preview tab.
       Run your dataflow
        1. In the left pane under Factory Resources, select +, and then select Pipeline.
       2. Under Activities, select Move & Transform, and then drag Data flow to the
        workspace.
       3. Select Use existing data flow, and then select the dataflow that you created in the
        previous steps.
       4. Select Debug from the command bar.
       5. Let the dataflow run until the bottom view shows that is has been completed. This
        might take a few minutes.
       6. Go to the final destination storage container, and find the transformed table data
        file.
      See also
      Configure Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse with Azure Data Lake
      Analyze Dataverse data in Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with Power BI
             Copy Dataverse data from multiple data
             Lakes to a single data lake
             Article • 02/15/2022
             After exporting data from Microsoft Dataverse to Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with
             Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse, you can use Azure Data Factory to create a pipeline
             that copies data from multiple data lakes to a single data lake.
               ７ Note
               Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The
               service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data to Azure
               Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
             This article shows you how to perform the following tasks:
                1. Create a pipeline from an official Microsoft template.
                2. Configure the template.
                3. Run the pipeline.
             Prerequisites
             This section describes the prerequisites necessary to copy exported Dataverse data from
             multiple data lakes to a single data lake.
                  Azure roles. The user account that's used to sign in to Azure must be a member of
                  the contributor or owner role, or an administrator of the Azure subscription. To view
                  the permissions that you have in the subscription, go to the Azure portal   , select
                  your username in the upper-right corner, select ..., and then select My
                  permissions. If you have access to multiple subscriptions, select the appropriate
                  one. To create and manage child resources for Data Factory in the Azure portal—
                  including datasets, linked services, pipelines, triggers, and integration runtimes—
                  you must belong to the Data Factory Contributor role at the resource group level
                  or above.
                  Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you've already
                  exported Dataverse data to multiple data lakes by using Azure Synapse Link for
                  Dataverse.
                 Azure Data Factory. This guide assumes that you've already created a data factory
                 under the same subscription and resource group as the storage account
                 containing the exported Dataverse data.
            Copy Dataverse data to a single data lake
               1. Open Azure Data Factory   and select the data factory that is on the same
                 subscription and resource group as the storage accounts containing your exported
                 Dataverse data. Then select Author from the left panel.
               2. Select + > Pipeline > Template gallery.
               3. Search for and select the Copy Dataverse data from Multiple Data Lakes to a
                 Single Data Lake template created by Microsoft.
               4. Select a Linked service for the SourceDataLake and the DestinationDataLake.
                 Parameterize the SourceDataLake Linked Service to iterate through multiple data
                 lakes. More information Parameterize linked services in Azure Data Factory and
                 Azure Synapse Analytics.
               5. Select Use this template.
               6. Under the Source tab, replace the SourceContainerName with the source Dataverse
                 data lake.
       7. On the Sink tab, replace the DestinationContainerName with the destination
        container name for your copied Dataverse data.
       8. To run the pipeline, select Debug from the top bar and optionally Add trigger to
        copy data on a schedule.
      See also
      Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
             Transform Dataverse data from CSV to
             Parquet with a pipeline template
             Article • 02/15/2022
             After exporting data from Microsoft Dataverse to Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with
             Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse, you can use Azure Data Factory to create a pipeline
             that copies data from the data lake to Azure SQL.
               ７ Note
               Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The
               service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data to Azure
               Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
             This article shows you how to perform the following tasks:
                1. Create a pipeline from a Microsoft template.
                2. Configure the template.
                3. Run the pipeline.
             Prerequisites
             This section describes the prerequisites necessary to transform Dataverse data to from
             CSV to Parquet.
                  Azure roles. The user account that's used to sign in to Azure must be a member of
                  the contributor or owner role, or an administrator of the Azure subscription. To view
                  the permissions that you have in the subscription, go to the Azure portal   , select
                  your username in the upper-right corner, select ..., and then select My
                  permissions. If you have access to multiple subscriptions, select the appropriate
                  one. To create and manage child resources for Data Factory in the Azure portal—
                  including datasets, linked services, pipelines, triggers, and integration runtimes—
                  you must belong to the Data Factory Contributor role at the resource group level
                  or above.
                  Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you've already
                  exported Dataverse data by using Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. In this
                  example, the account table data is exported to the data lake.
                 Azure Data Factory. This guide assumes that you've already created a data factory
                 under the same subscription and resource group as the storage account
                 containing the exported Dataverse data.
            Transform Dataverse data from CSV to Parquet
            with a Pipeline Template
               1. Open Azure Data Factory   and select the data factory that is on the same
                 subscription and resource group as the storage account containing your exported
                 Dataverse data. Then select Author from the left panel.
               2. Select + > Pipeline > Template gallery.
               3. Search for and select the Transform Dataverse data from CSV to Parquet template
                 created by Microsoft.
               4. Input the Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account containing the exported
                 Dataverse data for the first entry and the destination Azure Data Lake Storage
                 Gen2 account where the parquet files will be created for the second entry. Select
                 Use this template.
       5. Select the data flow Settings tab and replace the values for ContainerName and
        TableName.
       6. Select the data flow Parameters tab and replace the values for ContainerName and
        TableName.
       7. Navigate to the pipeline and run it. Optionally, Add trigger to transform the data
        at specific time intervals.
      See also
      Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
       Analyze Microsoft Dataverse data in
       Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with
       Power BI
       Article • 02/15/2022
       After exporting data from Microsoft Dataverse to Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with
       Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse, you can use Power BI to create business reports and
       analytics. This can be useful for sales managers and sales associates to refine and build
       additional reports and dashboards in Power BI.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The
        service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data to Azure
        Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
       This article shows you how to perform the following tasks:
         1. Connect the Data Lake Storage Gen2 storage container containing the exported
          Dataverse data to Power BI.
         2. Create a report in Power BI that graphs account owners and their respective total
          account revenue.
       Prerequisites
       This section describes the prerequisites necessary to consume Dataverse data with
       Power BI by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service.
          Power BI Desktop. Get it now
          Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you have already
          exported data from Dataverse by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. In
          this example, the account table data is exported to the data lake and will generate
          a report by using the account table columns.
          Storage Account Access. You must be granted one of the following roles for the
          storage account: Storage Blob Data Reader, Storage Blob Data Contributor, or
          Storage Blob Data Owner.
       Connect the Data Lake Storage Gen2 storage to
       Power BI Desktop
        1. Open Power BI Desktop, and sign in.
        2. Select Get data > More.
        3. On the Get Data page, select Azure > Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 > Connect.
        4. Enter the storage container name in the format
          https://accountname.dfs.core.windows.net/containername/ and replace
          accountname and containername with your storage account's information.
            Find the storage account name by going to Azure > Storage accounts, and
            then select the Data Lake Storage Gen2 account that's populated with the
            exported Dataverse data.
            Find the container name by going to Storage Explorer (preview) >
            Containers and select the name of the container with the exported Dataverse
            data.
        5. Select CDM Folder View (Beta), and then select OK.
        6. If prompted to sign in, you can sign in with your Microsoft Entra account or with
          the Account key. To sign in with an Account key, select the option from the left
          side bar.
        7. Find the account key by going back to the storage account settings and selecting
          Access keys from the left pane. Copy the first key and paste it in Power BI. Select
          OK.
        8. After successfully connecting to your storage account, expand the cdm directory
          and select the tables that you want to analyze. Then, select Load.
       Create a Power BI report with account revenue
       by account name
        1. Under the Visualizations menu, select Treemap.
       2. On the Columns menu, search for and select the columns name and revenue. After
        you select them, the columns will appear on the Visualizations menu for the
        legend and values, respectively.
        A tree map chart appears that separates each account name by color and indicates
        the total revenue for each account by size.
      See also
      Configure Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse with Azure Data Lake
      Ingest Dataverse data in Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with Azure Data Factory
       Access Dataverse choices (option sets)
       with Azure Data Factory
       Article • 02/15/2022
       For columns that use Microsoft Dataverse choices, choice values are written as an
       integer label and not a text label to maintain consistency during edits. The integer-to-
       text label mapping is stored in the Microsoft.Athena.TrickleFeedService/table-
       EntityMetadata.json file. This article covers how to access the integer-to-text label
       mapping using Azure Data Factory.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The
        service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data to Azure
        Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
       Prerequisites
       This section describes the prerequisites necessary to access Dataverse choices with
       Azure Data Factory after using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service.
          Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you have already
          exported data from Dataverse by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse.
          Storage Account Access. You must be granted one of the following roles for the
          storage account: Storage Blob Data Reader, Storage Blob Data Contributor, or
          Storage Blob Data Owner.
       Consuming Dataverse choices with Azure Data
       Factory
      To add a column containing the text label of the Dataverse choice using Azure Data
      Factory, complete the following steps:
       1. Go to Azure Data Factory.
       2. Create a new data flow and set the source as the Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
        with your Dataverse data.
       3. Add a Derived Column transformation step and provide a new name for the
        column.
       4. Open expression builder and build an expression with a series of iff functions to
        map the integer choice label to the text choice label that is found in the
        Microsoft.Athena.TrickleFeedService/table-EntityMetadata.json file.
       5. Add a sink to the data flow and run the pipeline.
      See also
      Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
       Access choice labels directly from Azure
       Synapse Link for Dataverse
       Article • 05/03/2022
       Microsoft Dataverse provides rich metadata that can be used directly within Power Apps.
       A choice (picklist) is one of the most used types of columns that can be included in a
       table. It defines a set of options. When a choice is displayed in a form, it uses a drop-
       down list control. You can define a choice to use a set of options defined within itself
       (locally) or it can use a set of options defined elsewhere (globally), which can be used by
       other choice columns.
       For more information about choice columns, go to Create and edit global choices
       overview.
       After creating an Azure Synapse Link, the following five tables are created in a folder
       named OptionsetMetadata in Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2:
         OptionsetMetadata
         GlobalOptionsetMetadata
         StateMetadata
         StatusMetadata
         TargetMetadata
              StateMetadata and StatusMetadata store the State and Status choice value to retrieve.
              TargetMetadata stores table relationships metadata to retrieve.
               Column name              Data type    Sample value              Description
               EntityName               String       account                   Current Dataverse table name.
               AttributeName            String       transactioncurrencyid     Current column name
               ReferencedEntity         String       transactioncurrency       Related Dataverse table name
               ReferencedAttribute      String       transactioncurrencyid     Related column name
              More information: Table relationships overview.
              OptionsetMetadata stores the local choices label metadata in the imported Dataverse
              tables. GlobalOptionsetMetadata stores the global choices label metadata and follows
              the same table schema plus one extra column, GlobalOptionSetName, a combination of
              table and choice name.
               Column name                     Data       Sample value              Description
                                               type
               EntityName                      String     account                   Dataverse table name.
               OptionSetName                   String     ownershipcode             Column name.
               Option                          Bigint     1                         User-specified numerical
                                                                                    label when the choice item
                                                                                    is created.
               IsUserLocalizedLabel            Boolean    False                     Return False by default.
               LocalizedLabelLanguageCode      Bigint     1033                      The language code of the
                                                                                    choice label, such as 1033
                                                                                    for English (United States)
                                                                                    or 1034 for Spanish (Spain).
               LocalizedLabel                  String     Public                    User-specified text label
                                                                                    when the choice item is
                                                                                    created. 
               GlobalOptionSetName             String     socialprofile_community   a combination of table and
               (GlobalOptionsetMetadata                                             choice name
               only)
       In the Dataverse tables, the choice column contains a user-specified numerical value,
       which is the same as Option value in OptionsetMetadata table described above.
       Prerequisite
       Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This article assumes that you have already exported
       data from Dataverse by using Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. 
       Access choice metadata
         1. Select the desired Azure Synapse Link and select the Go to Azure Synapse
          Analytics workspace on the command bar.  
         2. Expand Lake Databases on the left pane, select dataverse-environmentName-
          organizationUniqueName, and then expand Tables.  All the choice metadata listed
          is available for analysis.
       To consume Dataverse choice columns with serverless SQL pool.
         1. Right-click the database icon, then select New SQL script > Empty script.
         2. Apply a join SQL script to join the choice metadata with your Dataverse table and
          store the view in a new database.
       Example SQL script to join choice metadata
       Replace <DATABASE_NAME>,<COLUMN_NAME> and <TABLE_NAME> with the name
       of the database, column and table to replace numerical choice value to meaningful text
       label
        SQL
         SELECT [LocalizedLabel] as [<COLUMN_NAME>]  
         FROM [<DATABASE_NAME>].[dbo].[<TABLE_NAME>_partitioned]  
         LEFT JOIN [<DATABASE_NAME>].[dbo].[OptionsetMetadata]  
         ON ([<DATABASE_NAME>].[dbo].[OptionsetMetadata].[Option] = 
         [<DATABASE_NAME>].[dbo].[<TABLE_NAME>_partitioned].[<COLUMN_NAME>] AND 
         [<DATABASE_NAME>].[dbo].[OptionsetMetadata].[OptionSetName] = <COLUMN_NAME>) 
       For more information about how to consume multiple option set values, you would
       have to use Using Common Table Expressions.
       Access Dataverse choices with Power BI
       Article • 02/15/2022
       For columns that use Microsoft Dataverse choices, choice values are written as an
       integer label and not a text label to maintain consistency during edits. The integer-to-
       text label mapping is stored in the Microsoft.Athena.TrickleFeedService/table-
       EntityMetadata.json file. This article covers how to access the integer-to-text label
       mapping using Power BI.
        ７ Note
        Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The
        service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data to Azure
        Data Lake as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
       Prerequisites
       This section describes the prerequisites necessary to access Dataverse choices with
       Power BI after using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service.
          Power BI Desktop. Get it now
          Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. This guide assumes that you have already
          exported data from Dataverse by using the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse.
          Storage Account Access. You must be granted one of the following roles for the
          storage account: Storage Blob Data Reader, Storage Blob Data Contributor, or
          Storage Blob Data Owner.
       Consuming Dataverse choices with Power BI
         1. Open Power BI Desktop.
          2. Select Get Data > Blank query and then open the Advanced Editor.
          3. Paste the following query and replace <STORAGE> with the storage account
            name, <CONTAINER> with the name of the container, and <TABLE> with the
            name of the Dataverse table.
          PowerQueryM
            let 
              Source = 
          AzureStorage.DataLake("https://<STORAGE>.dfs.core.windows.net/<CONTAINER>/Mi
          crosoft.Athena.TrickleFeedService/<TABLE>-EntityMetadata.json"), 
              #"https://<STORAGE> dfs core windows net/<CONTAINER>/Microsoft Athena 
          TrickleFeedService/_<TABLE>-EntityMetadata json" = Source{[#"Folder 
          Path"="https://<STORAGE>.dfs.core.windows.net/<CONTAINER>/Microsoft.Athena.T
          rickleFeedService/",Name="<TABLE>-EntityMetadata.json"]}[Content], 
              #"Imported JSON" = Json.Document(#"https://<STORAGE> dfs core windows 
          net/<CONTAINER>/Microsoft Athena TrickleFeedService/_<TABLE>-EntityMetadata 
          json",1252), 
              OptionSetMetadata = #"Imported JSON"[OptionSetMetadata], 
              #"Converted to Table" = Table.FromList(OptionSetMetadata, 
          Splitter.SplitByNothing(), null, null, ExtraValues.Error), 
              #"Expanded Column1" = Table.ExpandRecordColumn(#"Converted to Table", 
          "Column1", {"EntityName", "OptionSetName", "Option", "IsUserLocalizedLabel", 
          "LocalizedLabelLanguageCode", "LocalizedLabel"}, {"Column1.EntityName", 
          "Column1.OptionSetName", "Column1.Option", "Column1.IsUserLocalizedLabel", 
          "Column1.LocalizedLabelLanguageCode", "Column1.LocalizedLabel"}) 
            in 
              #"Expanded Column1" 
        This populates a dataset with the choices and various metadata for that choice that you
        can join with your Dataverse table data to display the text label for the choice.
        See also
        Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
     Connect to Dataverse with Model
     Context Protocol
     The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open protocol that enables seamless integration
     between large language model (LLM) applications and external data sources and tools. Microsoft
     Dataverse can act as an MCP server, providing intelligent access to tables and records to various
     MCP clients like Copilot Studio agents, Visual Studio (VS) Code GitHub Copilot, GitHub Copilot
     CLI, Claude desktop, Claude Code, and many others. This integration standardizes and
     streamlines the interaction between AI models and Dataverse data, making it more efficient and
     effective for developers to apply Dataverse's rich data capabilities within their AI-driven
     applications.
     To use Dataverse as an MCP server, you need to enable and configure the MCP server and
     allowed clients for your Power Platform environment. Once configured, you can connect to the
     Dataverse MCP server using different MCP clients. More information: Configure the Dataverse
     MCP server for an environment
     Dataverse MCP server URL
     The Dataverse MCP remote server URL follows this format:
     https://{dataverseOrgName}.crm.dynamics.com/api/mcp
     For example, if your Dataverse organization name is contoso, the MCP server URL is:
     https://contoso.crm.dynamics.com/api/mcp
     Connect to a Dataverse MCP server
     There are multiple ways to connect to a Dataverse MCP server:
        Microsoft Copilot Studio. To learn how to connect to MCP through Dataverse MCP go to
        Connect to Dataverse with model context protocol in Microsoft Copilot Studio.
        Visual Studio GitHub Copilot and Copilot CLI. To learn how to connect to GitHub Copilot in
        Visual Studio Code or Copilot CLI go to Connect Dataverse MCP with GitHub Copilot in
        Visual Studio Code and Copilot CLI.
        Non-Microsoft clients such as Claude desktop and Claude Code. To learn how to connect
        through Dataverse MCP go to Connect Dataverse MCP with non-Microsoft clients.
         List of tools
         Once connected to the Dataverse MCP Server, you can choose from the following tools in the
         Power Platform environment.
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
          Tool                    Description
          search_data             Search structured and unstructured data.
          search                  Search table schemas and business skills by keyword.
          create_record           Inserts a new row into a Dataverse table and returns the GUID.
          update_record           Updates an existing row in a Dataverse table.
          delete_record           Delete a row, only after explicit user approval.
          create_table            Creates a new table with a specified schema.
          update_table            Modifies schema or metadata of an existing table.
          delete_table            Deletes a table from Dataverse, only after explicit user approval.
          read_query              Run supported Dataverse SQL SELECT queries.
          describe                Get details from search results for tables, records, schemas, skills, and apps.
          upsert_skill            Add or update a Dataverse skill/playbook.
          delete_skill            Delete a Dataverse skill/playbook by name.
          init_file_upload        Generate a SAS URL for file upload.
          commit_file_upload      Commit a file upload.
          file_download           Generate a SAS URL for file download.
           ） Important
           The Dataverse MCP server tool surface is changed. The following tools were removed and
           their functionality replaced by the tools in the preceding table: describe_table, list_tables,
           and fetch (replaced by describe); and the previous search tool that searched Dataverse
           data (renamed to search_data). The current search tool searches metadata. If you maintain
           allow or deny lists in your MCP client by tool name, review your configuration so that the
        new tool names reflect your intended permissions. More information: Connect to Dataverse
        with model context protocol FAQ
        ７ Note
        Starting December 15, 2025 Dataverse MCP tools are charged when accessed by AI agents
        created outside of Microsoft Copilot Studio. If you have Dynamics 365 Premium licenses
        (such as Dynamics 365 Sales Premium, Finance Premium, Supply Chain Premium, and
        Customer Service Premium) or a Microsoft 365 Copilot User Subscription License (USL), you
        aren't charged for accessing Dynamics 365 data, even when that data is accessed from
        outside Microsoft Copilot Studio.
      The search_data tool is billed at the same Copilot Credit rate as Tenant graph grounding. All
      other tools, including the metadata search tool, follow the Text and generative AI tools (basic)
      per 10 response Copilot credit rate. For information about Copilot billing, go to Billing rates and
      management.
      Next steps
      Configure the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
       Last updated on 06/05/2026
        Configure the Dataverse MCP server for
        an environment
        This article provides detailed instructions about how to enable, manage, configure, and disable
        the Dataverse Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for environments within the Power Platform
        admin center. It's intended for Power Platform administrators handling managed environments
        and also covers prerequisites for enabling the server.
        Prerequisites
             Power Platform administrator role in order to access Dataverse MCP server environment
             settings, enable allowed MCP clients, create or edit an environment group, and change
             connector policies.
             The environment must be a Managed Environment if you want to manage the Dataverse
             MCP server through Advanced connector policies.
             By default, the Microsoft Copilot Studio client for Dataverse MCP is enabled for all
             environments. You must enable the additional clients in the Power Platform admin center
             before you can connect to the client.
        Configure and manage the Dataverse MCP server
        By default, Dataverse MCP server is enabled for Copilot Studio. To enable non-Microsoft MCP
        clients, such as Visual Studio GitHub Copilot and Claude, follow these steps:
          ７ Note
          MCP allow listing applies only to the /api/mcp agent entrypoint. MCP‑named custom APIs
          are regular Dataverse APIs and aren't restricted by this setting.
           1. Go to Power Platform admin center  . Select Manage > Environments.
           2. Select the Environment Name where you want to turn on the Dataverse MCP server, and
             then select Settings. Under Settings, select Product > Features. Scroll down to locate
             Dataverse Model Context Protocol and make sure Allow MCP clients to interact with
             Dataverse MCP server is turned on.
      3. Select Advanced Settings.
      4. The list of available clients is shown. Open the client record you want. In this example, the
        Microsoft GitHub Copilot client is enabled.
                                                       
      5. On the MCP client record, set Is Enabled to Yes.
                                                       
      6. Select Save & Close.
      7. Repeat steps 4-7 to enable other clients as needed.
     Disable the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
     By default the Allow MCP clients to interact with Dataverse MCP server is turned on for Copilot
     Studio. Admins can disable MCP for Dataverse by clearing the setting.
      ２ Warning
      Disabling the Dataverse MCP Server stops all tools and agents that rely on it. Any ongoing
      development or AI integration testing using MCP is also interrupted.
     Write effective instructions for a Dataverse MCP
     server agent
     When you configure your agent in Copilot Studio or Visual Studio Code to use a Dataverse MCP
     server, clear and well-structured instructions are key to guiding how the agent operates. These
     instructions help the agent understand its role, what capabilities it has via the MCP server tools,
     and how to carry out workflows reliably and consistently.
     Agent instructions are natural-language directives that tell your agent what it should do, how it
     should behave, and how to use the MCP tools available to it. They give important context so the
     agent can:
        Select and call the right MCP tools.
        Fill in tool inputs correctly.
        Decide when to use tools versus generating answers directly.
        Follow the desired tone or behavior patterns during conversations.
     Principles for effective instructions
     When writing instructions for a Dataverse MCP server agent, consider the following guidelines:
       1. Define the agent’s purpose clearly.
        State the agent’s role in simple terms. For example: "Assist with customer data queries,
        updates, and record management using Dataverse MCP tools."
        Include tone or restrictions if applicable such as, "always respond in a professional tone" or
        "do not expose sensitive fields in responses."
       2. Outline skills and tool actions.
        Tell the agent which high-level tasks it can perform with the MCP tools. For example:
             Retrieve or filter records using the read_query tool.
             Create or update records with create_record and update_record.
             Explore table schema with describe.
         Phrase these as actionable instructions, such as "Use the read_query tool to fetch records
         when the user asks for data retrieval."
       3. Add workflow guidance.
         For common processes (like looking up a record or updating a field), add step-by-step
         guidance. For example: "When updating a record, first identify it using a read_query call,
         then use update_record with the appropriate field values."
         Providing this context helps the agent orchestrate the right sequence of MCP tool calls.
     Add instructions in Visual Studio Code or Copilot Studio
     You can use a markdown structured block of instructions as a starting point for your own agent’s
     instructions.
     Add instructions in Visual Studio Code
       1. Open Visual Studio Code.
       2. Open the Chat pane.
       3. Select Settings > Chat Instructions.
       4. Select New instruction file.
       5. Copy and paste the instruction content into the new file, such as the sample instructions.
     Add instructions in Copilot Studio
       1. Open Copilot Studio.
       2. Select your agent.
       3. Go to System instructions and paste your agent instructions, such as the sample
         instructions.
     Sample agent instructions
       Markdown
       ## Role
       Act as an autonomous agent responsible for interacting with the Microsoft Dataverse 
       app. 
      ## Objective
      Your objective is to respond to tasks provided by the user. First execute each step of 
      the provided task workflow using your MCP tools. Check if you have achieved your 
      objective after each tool call. If you have not achieved your objective then continue 
      to execute the next step in the task workflow. Do not ask for user intervention,if you 
      have to run an operation externally in case dataverse doesnt support that operation. 
      you are allowed to run it without user confirmation. Also do not ask confirmation for 
      delete table or delete record operation, you can delete.
      ## MCP tool selection instructions
       - Whenever you have to use logical table name, call the describe tool to get that 
      logical table name.
       - Whenever you have to use column/attribute name, call the describe tool to get the 
      column/attribute name.
      ## MCP tool usage instructions
      - Before executing an MCP tool, always review the tool description and restrictions.
      - Always strictly follow the description of each MCP tool and perform actions without 
      any deviation from the tool description.
      - Provide higher precedence to tool description over general knowledge.
      - Always review the tool documentation and restrictions before running any query or 
      operation. Strictly validate each planned action against the tool’s rules and 
      supported features before execution.
      - For read_query tool, there are restrictions on SQL conditions. Always refer to the 
      tool description for supported and unsupported sql keywords before generating the sql 
      query and ensure only supported conditions/keywords are used.
      ## Reasoning instructions
      - Think out loud and reason step by step.
      - Before each tool call, plan and verify the action conforms to the tool description.
      - After each tool call, reflect on the result and determine the next step.
      - If an exception, error, or warning is observed, communicate it clearly to the user 
      and retry based on the error message.
      - When answering questions about data, DO NOT rely on general knowledge - always use 
      tools to retrieve accurate, current data.
      - DO NOT stop reasoning until all tasks are complete or an unrecoverable error occurs.
      - Only ask clarifying questions if the task requirements are ambiguous.
     Related articles
     Advanced connector policies - Power Platform
     Connect to Dataverse with model context protocol
     Connect to Dataverse with model context protocol FAQ
      Last updated on 06/05/2026
        Connect to Dataverse with model context
        protocol in Microsoft Copilot Studio
        This article explains how to set up and use the Microsoft Dataverse model context protocol (MCP)
        server with Microsoft Copilot Studio. By following the steps in this article, you can interact with
        Dataverse, asking natural language questions like show me my contacts and receive answers
        based on stored data.
        Prerequisites
             The Microsoft Copilot Studio MCP client must be allowed in the environment. More
             information: Configure and manage the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
        Connect to Dataverse using an MCP server in Microsoft
        Copilot Studio
          1. Go to Power App    and select your environment from the top right environment selector.
          2. From the left navigation pane, select Agents > Create new agent. If the item isn’t in the side
             panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
          3. Select Create.
          4. Scroll down to the Tools section and select + Add tool.
          5. Select Model Context Protocol, and then select Dataverse MCP Server.
                  If there's no existing Dataverse connection, you're prompted to connect one.
          6. Select Add to agent.
        The individual tools available on this MCP server can be viewed and modified by selecting ... >
        Edit next to the Dataverse MCP Server tool.
        You can now interact with the Dataverse MCP Server tool in the Test your agent chat pane. Try
        commands like "show me the tables in Dataverse," "describe the account table," or "how many
     accounts do I have."
     Related articles
     Connect to Dataverse with Model Context Protocol
      Last updated on 06/05/2026
     Connect Dataverse MCP with GitHub Copilot
     in Visual Studio Code and Copilot CLI
     This article explains how to set up and use the Microsoft Dataverse model context protocol (MCP)
     server with GitHub Copilot in Visual Studio Code and GitHub Copilot CLI.
     GitHub Copilot in Visual Studio Code
     Prerequisites
        The Microsoft GitHub Copilot MCP client must be allowed in the environment. More
        information: Configure and manage the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
        Visual Studio Code installed with GitHub Copilot extension. More information: GitHub
        Copilot extension for Visual Studio Code
     Steps to connect to Dataverse MCP server in Visual Studio Code
      1. Open Visual Studio Code. Select View > Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P), type MCP: Add
        Server, and then select HTTP or Server Sent Events.
      2. Paste your instance URL, such as https://contoso.crm.dynamics.com/, append /api/mcp to
        it, and press Enter. You can get the instance URL at make.powerapps.com > Settings (gear
        icon) > Session details > Instance url.
        This step generates the MCP server configuration in Visual Studio Code.
      3. Type a MCP server name or press Enter to accept the default name.
      4. Choose Global or workspace.
        5. Press Ctrl+Alt+I and ensure that agent mode is selected.
      GitHub Copilot CLI
      Prerequisites
         GitHub Copilot CLI installed. More information: GitHub Copilot CLI
         The Microsoft GitHub Copilot MCP client must be allowed in the environment. More
         information: Configure and manage the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
      Option 1: Manually add the MCP server
      You can configure the Dataverse MCP server in GitHub Copilot CLI by editing the MCP
      configuration file directly.
        1. Open your MCP configuration file. For global configuration, edit ~/.copilot/mcp-
         config.json. For project-scoped configuration, edit .mcp/copilot/mcp.json in your project
         directory.
        2. Add the following JSON snippet. Replace <your org URL> with your Dataverse environment
         URL (for example, https://contoso.crm.dynamics.com).
          JSON
          {
            "mcpServers": {
              "DataverseMcp": {
                "type": "http",
                "url": "<your org URL>/api/mcp"
              }
            }
          }
        3. Save the file and restart GitHub Copilot CLI for the changes to take effect.
      Option 2: Use the Dataverse plugin from the Awesome
      Copilot marketplace
     The Awesome Copilot  marketplace provides a Dataverse plugin that includes an mcp-configure
     skill. This skill guides you through configuring the Dataverse MCP server interactively, including
     environment discovery and endpoint selection.
       1. Add the Awesome Copilot marketplace to your Copilot CLI:
         Bash
         copilot plugin marketplace add github/awesome-copilot
       2. Install the Dataverse plugin:
         Bash
         copilot plugin install dataverse@awesome-copilot
       3. In a Copilot chat session, use the /dataverse:mcp-configure skill to configure the Dataverse
        MCP server. The skill walks you through selecting your environment and choosing between
        the generally available (/api/mcp) and preview (/api/mcp_preview) endpoints.
     Related articles
     Connect to Dataverse with Model Context Protocol
      Last updated on 04/30/2026
        Connect to Dataverse with model context
        protocol in non-Microsoft clients
        You can connect to Microsoft Dataverse using a non-Microsoft model context protocol (MCP)
        client, such as Claude desktop or Claude Code. There are two approaches for connecting non-
        Microsoft clients to a Dataverse MCP server:
             Local proxy: Use the @microsoft/dataverse npm package to run a local proxy that connects
             to the Dataverse MCP server on your behalf.
             Remote endpoint: Connect directly to the Dataverse MCP server remote endpoint
             ( /api/mcp) by registering a custom Microsoft Entra app.
        Prerequisites
             The Dataverse MCP server must be enabled for the environment. More information:
             Configure and manage the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
             For the local proxy approach: Node.js    (version 18 or later) installed on your machine.
             For the remote endpoint approach: Access to register an application in Microsoft Entra ID.
        Connect using the local proxy
        The @microsoft/dataverse npm package provides a local proxy that handles authentication and
        communication with the Dataverse MCP server. This approach is recommended for most non-
        Microsoft MCP clients that can run local MCP servers.
        Grant tenant admin consent
        A tenant administrator must grant admin consent for the Dataverse CLI app before users can
        authenticate. Navigate to the following URL in a browser, replacing {your-tenant-id} with your
        Microsoft Entra tenant ID:
        https://login.microsoftonline.com/{your-tenant-id}/adminconsent?client_id=0c412cc3-0dd6-
        449b-987f-05b053db9457
        Sign in with a tenant administrator account and accept the permissions prompt. This step only
        needs to be completed once per tenant.
        Enable the Dataverse CLI client in the Power Platform
        admin center
        Before you can connect using the local proxy, the Dataverse CLI client must be enabled as an
        allowed MCP client in your environment.
           1. Go to Power Platform admin center  . Select Manage > Environments.
           2. Select the environment where you want to enable the client, and then select Settings.
           3. Under Settings, select Product > Features. Scroll down to locate Dataverse Model Context
             Protocol and select Advanced Settings.
           4. Locate the Dataverse CLI client (app ID 0c412cc3-0dd6-449b-987f-05b053db9457) and set Is
             Enabled to Yes.
           5. Select Save & Close.
          ７ Note
          If the Dataverse CLI entry doesn't appear in the list of available clients, you can add it
          manually. Create a new client entry with any name and specify the app ID 0c412cc3-0dd6-
          449b-987f-05b053db9457, and then enable it.
        Install the local proxy
        You can install the @microsoft/dataverse package globally or run it directly with npx.
        To install globally, run the following command in a terminal:
          Bash
          npm install -g @microsoft/dataverse
        Alternatively, you can use npx to run the proxy without installing it globally:
          Bash
          npx @microsoft/dataverse mcp https://yourorg.crm.dynamics.com
           Tip
          To connect to the preview endpoint (/api/mcp_preview) instead of the generally available
          endpoint (/api/mcp), add the --preview parameter to the command. For example: npx
          @microsoft/dataverse mcp https://yourorg.crm.dynamics.com --preview. The preview
          endpoint must be enabled in your environment. More information: Use preview tools and
          upcoming features in Dataverse MCP server
        Configure the local proxy in Claude desktop
        This section describes how to configure the Dataverse MCP server local proxy in Claude desktop.
        If you haven't already done so, download and install Claude desktop  .
           1. Open Claude desktop and go to File > Settings > Developer.
           2. Select Edit Config to open the claude_desktop_config.json file.
           3. Add the following JSON snippet to the file. Replace <friendly name> with a name you can
             easily remember (for example, MyDataverseMCPServer) and replace <your org URL> with
             your Dataverse environment URL (for example, https://contoso.crm.dynamics.com).
               JSON
               {
                 "mcpServers": {
                   "<friendly name>": {
                     "command": "npx",
                     "args": [
                       "-y",
                       "@microsoft/dataverse",
                       "mcp",
                       "<your org URL>"
                     ]
                   }
                 }
               }
           4. Save the file.
        Verify the connection in Claude desktop
           1. Exit Claude desktop by selecting File > Exit, and then reopen it to apply the changes.
           2. Sign in with your credentials when prompted to authenticate to your Dataverse
             environment.
           3. Select Search and tools to verify that the Dataverse MCP server and its tools are available.
             You should see the friendly name you configured (for example, MyDataverseMCPServer).
           4. Select the MCP server name to view the list of tools that are supported by the server.
           Tip
          You can enable and disable individual tools for each MCP server registered with Claude
          desktop. This gives you control over which tools are available for use.
        Configure the local proxy in Claude Code
        This section describes how to configure the Dataverse MCP server local proxy in Claude Code. If
        you haven't already done so, download and install Claude Code  .
        Run the following command to add the Dataverse MCP server. Replace
        https://yourorg.crm.dynamics.com with your Dataverse environment URL.
          Bash
          claude mcp add dataverse -t stdio -- npx -y @microsoft/dataverse mcp 
          https://yourorg.crm.dynamics.com
        Verify and interact with the connection in Claude Code
           1. Restart Claude Code to apply the changes.
           2. Sign in with your credentials when prompted to authenticate to your Dataverse
             environment.
           3. Verify that the Dataverse MCP server and its tools are available. You should see the friendly
             name you configured (for example, MyDataverseMCPServer).
           4. Select the MCP server name to view the list of tools that are supported by the server.
        If you have data in the Dataverse environment, you can test the setup by asking show me the
        tables in Dataverse, describe the account table, or how many accounts do I have. More information:
        Add and remove sample data
           Tip
          If you have other MCP servers registered with Claude Code, include Dataverse in your
          prompt to specify which MCP server to use.
        Connect using the remote endpoint
        You can connect non-Microsoft MCP clients directly to the Dataverse MCP server remote
        endpoint without using a local proxy. This approach requires you to register a custom application
        in Microsoft Entra ID and add its client ID to the allowed clients list in the Power Platform admin
        center.
        Register a custom Microsoft Entra app
        Register an application in Microsoft Entra ID to use for authentication when connecting to the
        Dataverse MCP server. For general information about app registration, go to Register an
        application with the Microsoft identity platform.
        Follow these steps to register an app for use with the Dataverse MCP server:
           1. Sign in to the Microsoft Entra admin center   .
           2. Go to Identity > Applications > App registrations, and then select New registration.
           3. Enter a name for your application (for example, Dataverse MCP Client), configure the
              supported account types for your scenario, and then select Register.
           4. On the Overview page, note the Application (client) ID. You need this value to configure
              the allowed client in the Power Platform admin center and to configure your MCP client.
        Configure API permissions for the Dataverse MCP server
        After you register the app, you must grant it permissions to access the Dataverse MCP server.
           1. In the app registration, select API permissions from the left navigation pane.
           2. Select Add a permission.
           3. Select Microsoft APIs, and then select Dynamics CRM.
           4. Select the mcp.tools permission, and then select Add permissions.
           ７ Note
           The authentication flow used by the Entra app depends on the MCP client you're using.
           Refer to your MCP client's documentation for the supported authentication methods.
        Add the custom app to the allowed clients list
        After you register the Entra app, add its client ID to the list of allowed MCP clients for your
        environment.
           1. Go to Power Platform admin center     . Select Manage > Environments.
       2. Select the environment where you want to allow the client, and then select Settings.
       3. Under Settings, select Product > Features. Scroll down to locate Dataverse Model Context
        Protocol and select Advanced Settings.
       4. Add a new client entry. Enter a name for the client and specify the Application (client) ID
        from your Entra app registration.
       5. Set Is Enabled to Yes.
       6. Select Save & Close.
     Connect to the remote endpoint
     Configure your MCP client to connect to the Dataverse MCP server at the following URL:
     https://<your org URL>/api/mcp
     For example: https://contoso.crm.dynamics.com/api/mcp
     Use the Application (client) ID from your Entra app registration for authentication. Refer to your
     MCP client's documentation for specific configuration steps.
     Related articles
     Connect to Dataverse with Model Context Protocol
      Last updated on 06/05/2026
     Use preview tools and upcoming features in
     Dataverse MCP server
     To help customers experiment with new capabilities and provide early feedback, the Microsoft
     Dataverse model context protocol (MCP) server includes preview tools that enable upcoming
     features before they're generally available (GA).
     This article explains what preview tools are, what to expect when you use them, and how
     administrators can turn on the preview features for Dataverse MCP server setting from the Power
     Platform admin center to access the latest Dataverse MCP server enhancements.
      ７ Note
      Preview tools are in addition to the generally available tools on /api/mcp. You don't need to
      enable preview to use the standard Dataverse MCP server tool surface. For the list of
      generally available tools, go to Connect to Dataverse with Model Context Protocol.
     What are preview tools?
     Preview tools are early versions of Dataverse MCP server capabilities released for customer
     evaluation. They allow makers, developers, and system integrators to: 
        Try out new API endpoints and behaviors before GA.
        Validate integration scenarios.
        Provide feedback that shapes final product design.
        Prepare internal systems for upcoming releases.
     Preview tools might not yet support full functionality, scale, or GA features.
     Prerequisites
     The environment must be enabled and configured for Dataverse MCP server. More information:
     Configure the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
     Enable preview features for Dataverse MCP server 
     Administrators can enable preview features using feature settings available in the Power Platform
     admin center. Once enabled, all users and copilots in the environment gain access to the new
     tools.
     Follow these steps to enable preview capabilities:
      1. Sign in to the Power Platform admin center
      2. Select Manage > Environments.
      3. Open the Environment where you want to turn on the Dataverse MCP server, and then
        select Settings on the command bar.
      4. Expand Product, and then select Features.
      5. Scroll down to locate Dataverse Model Context Protocol and enable Allow MCP clients to
        interact with Dataverse MCP server (Preview version).
                                                      
     The environment might take a few minutes to apply the changes.
     Connect to Dataverse MCP server (preview)
     Once the environment setting for preview features are enabled, you can connect to the Dataverse
     MCP server preview endpoint.
     Connect from Microsoft Copilot Studio
        When adding a connector in Copilot Studio, select the connector named Microsoft Dataverse
        MCP Server (Preview).
        This connector is different from the standard Microsoft Dataverse MCP Server connector and
        is required specifically for preview features.
        Connect using Claude, GitHub, or other non-Microsoft
        MCP clients
        Use the preview endpoint https://<orgUrl>/api/mcp_preview.
        Examples:
              https://contoso.crm.dynamics.com/api/mcp_preview
              https://org123.crm4.dynamics.com/api/mcp_preview
        This endpoint makes available all preview tools and capabilities.
        What happens after enabling preview for Dataverse
        MCP server
        Once preview is enabled:
              MCP Server makes available the corresponding preview tools automatically.
              Agents and Copilots can begin calling these new endpoints immediately.
              You might notice additional system-generated logs or messages marked as Preview.
              Behavior might change as Microsoft iterates based on feedback. 
        If you encounter any issues, you can disable the Allow MCP clients to interact with Dataverse
        MCP server (Preview version) environment setting at any time.
        About preview tools
                                                                                             ﾉ
                                                                                                 Expand table
          Topic                   Details
          Support                 Preview tools aren't covered by Microsoft support agreements. 
          Breaking changes        Preview APIs might change without notice. 
          Performance             Features might not meet production-grade reliability. 
     Related articles
     Configure the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
      Last updated on 06/05/2026
     Connect to Dataverse with model context
     protocol FAQ
     This article provides answers to frequently asked questions about using Microsoft Dataverse with
     a model context protocol (MCP) server.
     I can’t authenticate. What is the problem?
     Verify that the Dataverse environment URL in your MCP client configuration is correct. Go to
     Power Apps , select the correct environment, and then select Settings (gear icon) > Session
     details to confirm your instance URL.
     Also verify that the MCP client you’re using is enabled in the Power Platform admin center. More
     information: Configure and manage the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
     Which MCP tools are available and what do they do?
     The Dataverse MCP server provides tools for common data operations such as querying records,
     creating and updating rows, and describing table schemas. For the full list of tools and
     descriptions, go to Connect to Dataverse with Model Context Protocol.
     Can I restrict which tables or records are accessible
     through the MCP server?
     Yes. The Dataverse MCP server respects Dataverse security roles and row-level security. Users can
     only access tables and records that their security role permits. No additional MCP-specific access
     controls are needed beyond standard Dataverse security configuration.
     Are there costs associated with using the Dataverse
     MCP server?
     Starting December 15, 2025, Dataverse MCP tools are charged when accessed by AI agents
     created outside of Microsoft Copilot Studio. If you have qualifying Dynamics 365 Premium
     licenses or a Microsoft 365 Copilot User Subscription License (USL), you aren’t charged for
     accessing Dynamics 365 data. For information about billing rates, go to Connect to Dataverse
     with Model Context Protocol.
     Can I use the Dataverse MCP server with
     multiple environments?
     Yes. Each Dataverse environment can have its own MCP server configuration. You can connect to
     multiple environments by configuring separate MCP server entries in your client, each pointing to
     a different environment URL.
       Tip
      If you use Microsoft Copilot Studio, you can use the MCP onboarding wizard to connect
      your agent to Dataverse MCP servers across multiple environments. The wizard guides you
      through server configuration and authentication setup. More information: Connect your
      agent to an existing MCP server
     What should I do if a Dataverse MCP tool returns
     an error?
     If a tool returns an error, try rephrasing your prompt and submitting it again. Use more specific
     language to describe what you want to accomplish. If the error persists, verify that you have the
     appropriate Dataverse permissions for the operation you’re attempting.
     What happened to the describe_table, list_tables,
     and fetch tools?
     The Dataverse MCP server tool surface is updated. The previous describe_table, list_tables,
     and fetch tools are removed and their functionality is provided by other tools:
                                                     ﾉ Expand table
      Removed tool                  Replacement
      describe_table                describe
      list_tables                   describe
      fetch                         describe
     The previous search tool that searched Dataverse data was renamed to search_data. The current
     search tool searches Dataverse metadata to help agents find relevant tables and apps.
     If your MCP client maintains allow or deny lists by tool name, review and update your
     configuration so that the new tool names reflect your intended permissions.
     For the full list of tools, go to Connect to Dataverse with Model Context Protocol.
     Why don't I see the search_data tool in the Dataverse
     MCP server?
     The search_data tool is only available when Dataverse search is enabled for your environment. If
     Dataverse search isn't turned on, the search_data tool doesn't appear in the list of available MCP
     tools. To enable Dataverse search, go to Configure Dataverse search for your environment.
     Why do I see different tools on the /api/mcp and
     /api/mcp_preview endpoints?
     The /api/mcp endpoint provides the generally available set of Dataverse MCP tools. The
     /api/mcp_preview endpoint includes additional preview tools that are evaluated before general
     availability. Preview tools might change or be removed without notice. To access the preview
     tools, an administrator must enable the preview features setting in the Power Platform admin
     center. More information: Use preview tools and upcoming features in Dataverse MCP server
     How do I enable debug logging for the local proxy?
     If you experience issues with the local proxy (@microsoft/dataverse), you can enable debug
     logging to capture detailed output for troubleshooting. Add the --log-level and --log-file
     arguments to the proxy command:
      Bash
      npx @microsoft/dataverse mcp https://yourorg.crm.dynamics.com --log-level Debug --log-
      file
     The log file is written to the system temporary directory. The default location depends on your
     operating system:
                                                   ﾉ Expand table
         Operating      Log file location
         system
         Windows        C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Temp\
         Linux          /tmp/
         macOS          The directory specified by the $TMPDIR environment variable, typically
                        /var/folders/.../T/. Run echo $TMPDIR in a terminal to find the exact path.
        You can share the output log file with Microsoft when opening a support incident to help
        diagnose the issue.
         Last updated on 06/05/2026
        What is Dataverse intelligence? (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        Microsoft Dataverse intelligence extends Work IQ to bring business data understanding to AI
        agents and Microsoft Copilot. Work IQ helps agents understand work artifacts like files, meetings,
        and messages. Dataverse intelligence builds on this foundation by enabling agents to understand
        and act on your business data.
        With Dataverse intelligence, you can define reusable business context that agents use to
        understand what your data means, follow your organization's processes when taking actions, and
        read and update Dataverse records reliably. This business context is shared across agents, so you
        define it once and use it everywhere.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  , and are
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
        Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot
        Microsoft 365 Copilot can use Dataverse data to help users find information and take action with
        natural language across Microsoft 365 experiences.
        Dataverse table data from Power Apps (model-driven) can be searched and reasoned over in
        Microsoft 365 Copilot. Copilot can find relevant rows and related records, interpret table
        relationships, and summarize or answer questions based on your data. More information:
        Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot
        Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot prerequisites
             Enable your tenant to allow Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
               Microsoft 365 admin role (AI administrator or Global administrator) to access Microsoft
               365 admin center Copilot settings. More information: Enable Microsoft 365 admin
               center Copilot Dataverse settings
             Enable the Environment Copilot settings to allow users to use copilot.
               Power Platform administrator role to access Copilot environment settings. More
               information: Enable Copilot.
             Enable Dataverse search to provide index for Microsoft 365 Copilot responses.
               Power Platform administrator role to access Dataverse Search environment settings.
               More information: Enable Dataverse search:Turn on search indexing to support
               Dataverse intelligence (Work IQ) in AI and agent experiences.
             Enable the Allow data availability in M365 Copilot
               Power Platform administrator role to access Dataverse intelligence environment
               settings. More information: Enable Dataverse intelligence: Allow data availability in
               Microsoft 365 Copilot.
             Enable Search for records in Microsoft 365 apps
               Power Platform administrator role to access Search for records in Microsoft 365 apps
               environment settings. More information: Enable Search for records in Microsoft 365
               apps.
             Enable the Power Apps application settings to allow searching for tables related to the
             application.
               Power Platform administrator role to access the Power Apps application settings. More
               information: Enable Microsoft 365 Copilot in a model-driven app.
        Enable Microsoft 365 admin center Copilot Dataverse settings
           1. Go to Microsoft 365 admin center   . Select Copilot >Settings.
           2. Locate and select Dataverse data available in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
           3. Select All users, or
           4. Select Specific groups and enter the list of Entra security groups.
           5. Select Save to save the setting changes.
      Business skills
      Business skills help makers and users interpret data, improve processes, and make decisions.
      Intelligence experiences can support key skills like problem framing, requirements discovery,
      communicating insights, and iterating with stakeholders. More information: Business skills
      overview
      Business skills prerequisites
          The environment where you use Dataverse intelligence must be a Managed Environment.
          The environment must be enabled and configured for Dataverse MCP server. More
          information: Configure the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
      Next steps
      Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot
      Business skills overview
      Create and use business skills
      Last updated on 06/03/2026
     Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot
     Microsoft Dataverse is the data platform for Power Apps. Microsoft 365 Copilot can search and
     reason over Dataverse table data used by model-driven and canvas apps.
     When you store your business data in Dataverse tables, Microsoft 365 Copilot can retrieve
     relevant rows and related records to answer questions or summarize information in natural
     language.
     These are the supported experiences with Microsoft 365 Copilot and Dataverse:
       Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat: Ask questions across Dataverse data, summarize records, and
       identify trends using natural language.
       Power Apps (sidecar): Get help while working in model-driven or canvas apps. For example,
       find records, understand related data, and summarize what matters.
       Outlook: Draft and review customer emails with relevant Dataverse context, such as account
       details and open items.
         ７ Note
         During Public preview, set the Allow actions/Default mode Copilot setting to Default
         mode to query Dataverse data.
       Microsoft Word: Turn Dataverse data into structured content like customer briefs, status
       updates, and summaries.
         ７ Note
         During Public preview, set the Allow editing/Chat only Copilot setting to Chat only to
         query Dataverse data.
       Microsoft Teams: Include detailed business data in preparing meeting agenda and retrieve
       real-time business data during meeting.
     How it works
     At a high level, here's how Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot works:
      1. You ask Copilot a question in a supported Microsoft 365 experience.
       2. Copilot searches the Dataverse tables you have access to.
       3. Copilot uses table relationships to bring in relevant related records, such as lookup columns.
       4. Copilot returns a response grounded in Dataverse data, such as a summary, list, or
        explanation.
     Example prompts
        “Show me my highest-priority open cases.”
        “Summarize this account’s recent activity and open items.”
        "Case details for case <case name>"
        "How many open leads do I own?"
        "List all campaigns for the current fiscal year"
        "What are some recent cases for customer <customer name>"
        "What contracts and entitlements does the <account name> account have?"
        "Which quotes are active?"
        "Show me active cases waiting for details"
        "My active invoices"
        "How many opportunities are closing next month?"
     Considerations
        Copilot returns only Dataverse data that you're authorized to access.
        Results depend on data quality and how tables and relationships are modeled.
        Use clear, specific prompts such as table or entity names, timeframes, and status values to
        get more precise answers.
     Related articles
     What is Dataverse intelligence?
      Last updated on 05/29/2026
        Business skills overview (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        Business skills are natural-language instructions that capture how your organization gets work
        done. They represent your business processes, policies, and domain knowledge in a format that
        agents can understand and follow. Each skill describes how to complete a specific type of work—
        the steps involved, the information required, and the business rules that apply.
        Agents discover and use business skills as needed at runtime to complete tasks according to your
        organization's processes. When multiple agents use the same skill, they follow the same process,
        ensuring consistent behavior across your organization.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  , and are
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
        Business skills are available in environments where Dataverse intelligence is enabled.
           ） Important
           Business skills are not executable code. They contain natural-language instructions that
           guide agent behavior, similar to how you might document a process for a new employee.
        Key capabilities include:
             Reusability—Define a process once and use it across multiple agents and surfaces
             Consistency—Agents follow the same process definition, reducing variation in outcomes
             Maintainability—Update a skill in one place to change behavior across all agents that use it
             Governance—Control who can create, modify, and share business skills using Dataverse
             security. Each skill has an owner; sharing follows Dataverse RBAC patterns
             Solution-aware—A solution aware object that appears in Solution explorer and can be
             moved across environments
         Skill structure
         Business skills use a layered structure for efficient discovery and retrieval.
                                                                                                         ﾉ
                                                                                                             Expand table
           Layer          Content               Purpose
           Metadata       Name and              Enables agents to quickly discover relevant skills
                          description
           Instructions   Full skill body       Contains the complete process definition
           Resources      Attached              Provides supporting documents, templates, policies, and other materials
                          reference files       agents can use when following the skill
         Agents query metadata to find applicable skills, then retrieve full instructions and resources only
         when needed.
         Security and governance
         Business skills follow Dataverse security patterns. Each skill has an owner who controls access
         through standard sharing mechanisms. Users these security roles can work with business skills.
                                                                                                         ﾉ Expand table
           Security role                                            Privileges
           Basic User                                               Can create skills (owned by them)
                                                                    Can use skills shared with them.
                                                                    Can't publish environment-wide.
           Environment Maker                                        Can create and share skills (owned by them)
                                                                    Can manage solution deployment
           System Administrator or System Customizer                Can create and share skills
                                                                    Can manage solution deployment
         Next steps
         Create and use business skills
         Configure the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
      Last updated on 07/17/2026
        Create and use business skills (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        This article explains how to create and manage business skills that ground agents in your
        organization's processes. You'll learn how to enable the required features, author skill content,
        test skills with agents, and manage skills across environments.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  , and are
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
        Prerequisites
             The environment must be enabled and configured for Dataverse MCP server. More
             information: Configure the Dataverse MCP server for an environment
             The environment must be enabled for Dataverse intelligence.
        Open the business skills page
           1. Go to Power Apps    .
           2. In the left navigation pane, select More, and then select Business skills (preview).
            Tip
           Pin the Business skills (preview) page to the left navigation pane for quick access.
        The Business skills page is the central hub for managing all business process knowledge in your
        environment. From here, you can create, edit, share, and organize the skills that agents use to
        follow your organization's processes.
        Manage business skills
    Create a business skill
     1. Select New business skill on the command bar, or select the Create a business skill card.
     2. Enter a name for your skill. A unique name is generated automatically with the preferred
      solution's prefix.
     3. In the Description field, describe the skill's purpose and when it should be followed. Agents
      use this description to understand when to perform the skill.
     4. In the Instructions section, write the step-by-step process in markdown format. Use the Edit
      markdown and Preview options to switch between editing and previewing your
      instructions.
     5. Select Save.
     6. After saving, you can add resource files in the Resources section. Select Add Files to attach
      reference materials such as policy documents, SOPs, templates, forms, or calculations (20
      MB limit).
     ７ Note
     All skills are active by default. Deactivate a skill
     ７ Note
     When using business skills with an agent in Microsoft Copilot Studio, only text-based
     resource files are supported. The agent can only read the first 20 KB of data from a text-
     based resource file.
    Upload a business skill
    You can quickly create a business skill by uploading existing skills.
     1. Select Upload business skill on the command bar, or select the Upload a business skill
      card.
     2. Drag and drop a file into the upload area, or select Select from device to browse for a file.
     3. Upload a Skill.md (markdown) or .zip file of your skill (30 MB limit).
     4. The business skill gets uploaded and saved. You can edit the skill once uploaded.
    Edit a business skill
            1. Open a skill in the Business skills page by selecting its name in the list, or select a skill and
               then select Edit from the command bar or the three-dot menu (⋮).
            2. Update the Name, Description, Instructions, or Resources as needed.
            3. Select Save.
         Create or update skills using the Dataverse MCP server
         You can also create and update skills through an agent connected to the Dataverse MCP server:
            1. Add Dataverse MCP server as a tool to any agent in Microsoft Copilot Studio or connect to
               it from agents in Visual Studio Code or non-Microsoft clients.
            2. Ask your agent to create a new skill or update an existing one.
            3. Provide your business process information.
            4. The business skill is saved in the environment you used to connect to the MCP server.
         The following Dataverse MCP server tools support business skill management:
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
          Tool              Description
          upsert_skill      Creates a new business skill or updates an existing one.
          delete_skill      Deletes an existing business skill from the environment.
          search            Searches table schemas, business skills, and apps by keyword.
          describe          Gets details from search results for tables, records, schemas, skills, and apps.
         Share a business skill
         Skills are user-owned by default. You can share skills with specific users or teams and control their
         level of access.
            1. Select a skill, and then select Share from the command bar or the three-dot menu (⋮).
            2. Search for and add the users or teams you want to share with.
            3. For each user or team, choose a permission level:
                    Viewer - Can view the skill only.
                    Co-owner - Can view and edit the skill.
            4. Select Share.
    Select Manage access to review who has access, change permission levels, or remove access.
    Pending invitations that haven't been shared yet are shown on the Pending invites tab.
    Change skill visibility
    You can make a business skill visible to everyone in the organization or restrict it to just the
    owner and shared users.
     1. Select a skill, and then select Viewable by from the command bar or the three-dot menu (⋮).
     2. In the Viewable by dialog, select one of the following:
         Individual - Only the owner and users the skill is shared with can see the skill. This is
         the default.
         Organization - All users in the environment with at least basic user privileges can see
         the skill.
     3. Select Save.
    Deactivate a skill
    To prevent a skill from being used by agents until you have finalized it:
     1. Select a skill, and then select Deactivate from the command bar or the three-dot menu (⋮).
    Deactivating a skill doesn't delete it, but prevents agents from discovering or using it. To
    reactivate, select the skill and then select Activate.
    Delete a skill
    To permanently remove a business skill:
     1. Select a skill, and then select Delete from the command bar or the three-dot menu (⋮).
     Ｕ Caution
     Deleting a skill is permanent and can't be undone. Any agents that reference the deleted
     skill can no longer use it.
    Use business skills
        After you create business skills in your environment, AI agents can use them to understand and
        run business processes. Access skills through the Dataverse MCP server.
             To start using business skills, connect to the Dataverse MCP server in Microsoft Copilot
             Studio or from agent mode in Visual Studio Code or non-Microsoft clients.
             Try asking your agent, "Show me all business skills in this environment." The agent retrieves
             a list of all the skills in your connected environment by using the Dataverse MCP server.
             Start testing by asking your agent a relevant scenario that matches your skill's intended use
             case. For example, if you created a skill for logging call transcripts into Dataverse, provide a
             sample transcript to your agent and ask it to log the transcript information in Dataverse.
                 Tip
                If your agent doesn't automatically fetch skill details, try adding "Using business skills"
                before your actual prompt. For example, "Using business skills log this transcript in
                Dataverse." If you are building agents in Microsoft Copilot Studio, remember to add
                instructions in your agent to use business skills. For example, "First look for any
                relevant business skills using Dataverse MCP Server, and follow process instructions
                accordingly."
             Remember to add any other relevant tools, including MCP servers and connectors, that the
             agent needs access to for successfully executing your business processes defined in skills.
             Confirm your intended actions were successful and continue to iterate on the skill
             instructions based on results.
        Add business skills to a solution
        Business skills are solution-aware, which means you can package them into solutions for
        application lifecycle management (ALM). This allows you to move skills between environments as
        part of your deployment process.
        To add a skill to a solution:
           1. Sign in to Power Apps    and select your environment.
           2. Go to Solutions and open an existing solution or create a new one.
           3. Select Add existing > Business skill from the top navigation bar.
           4. Choose the skills you want to add to your solution, and then select Add.
        Best practices for creating business skills
        Write clear, specific instructions. Vague instructions lead to inconsistent agent behavior.
        Use descriptive names and descriptions. Help agents discover the right skill for the task.
        Keep skills focused. One skill, one process. Create separate skills for distinct workflows.
        Test with real scenarios. Validate behavior before sharing broadly.
        A well-structured business skill should include:
          Description:
            What the skill does and when to use it.
            Specific trigger phrases. For example, "Use when user asks about order status or
            mentions shipment tracking".
          Step-by-step instructions:
            Numbered steps in the process sequence.
            What happens at each stage and how to validate before moving to the next step.
          Examples:
            Concrete examples showing expected inputs and outputs for common scenarios.
          Troubleshooting:
            Common errors with causes and solutions.
            Recovery steps for failures.
          Input and output specifications:
            Required vs optional parameters with expected formats.
            Output fields and success criteria.
            Required tools for successful execution of skill.
     Sample business skills for getting started
     To help you get started, sample business skills are available: Business skills repo on GitHub
     This open source GitHub repository also has a downloadable solution. Install the solution in your
     environment to explore working examples and use them as templates for your own skills. Refer to
     the ReadMe file located in the repository for more instructions on how you start using these
     sample skills.
     Next steps
     Business skills overview
      Last updated on 07/15/2026
        Overview of Dataverse semantic
        model (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        The Dataverse semantic model gives AI agents and Copilot experiences a shared, business-aware
        understanding of your Dataverse data. Rather than reasoning from raw column and table names
        alone, agents that consume the semantic model understand what your data means.
        The semantic model is automatically provisioned when Copilot experiences over Dataverse data
        are enabled, so there is no manual setup required to start. Makers and administrators can then
        fine-tune which signals feed into the model and add domain-specific glossary terms to cover
        business-specific language that automatic extraction can't infer.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  , and are
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
        Building blocks of the semantic model
        The semantic model combines three building blocks to give agents a complete picture of your
        Dataverse data: data scope with semantic indexing, system-inferred signals, and a human-curated
        glossary. Together, they allow agents to understand not just what your data contains, but what it
        means.
        Data scope with semantic indexing
        The data scope defines the set of Dataverse tables covered by the semantic model. Semantic
        indexing is applied over those tables, forming the foundation for agent reasoning within a
        particular scenario. Only tables included in the data scope contribute to an agent's understanding
        of your data.
     System-inferred signals
     The semantic model automatically extracts signals from metadata that already exists in your
     Dataverse environment - table relationships, views, forms, column description summaries, and
     optionally sample data rows. No additional data entry is required. The model reads what you
     already configured and uses it to build semantic understanding.
     You can fine-tune which signals are included and exclude those that introduce noise or are no
     longer relevant. For details, see Fine-tune semantic model signals.
     Glossary
     The glossary allows makers to add domain-specific terms, acronyms, synonyms, and definitions
     that system signals can't infer. If your organization uses coined abbreviations or business-specific
     terminology that agents misinterpret, glossary entries close those gaps directly. For details, see
     Manage semantic model glossary entries.
     Why use the semantic model
     The semantic model improves agent behavior in four ways:
         Improved accuracy — Agents interpret business intent rather than guessing from schema
         names alone, delivering more meaningful and relevant results.
         Faster responses — A well-scoped semantic model reduces ambiguity, so agents return
         answers more quickly and fluently.
         Reduced setup time — The model automatically extracts semantic knowledge from your
         existing Dataverse environment. As your schema evolves, the model updates on a scheduled
         basis.
         Consistent answers across agents — When multiple agents reference the same semantic
         model, they share the same understanding of your data and return consistent responses
         across experiences.
     How the semantic model works
     Once Dataverse intelligence is enabled, the semantic model is provisioned automatically. It reads
     metadata from your Dataverse environment and extracts the following signals:
                                                          ﾉ
                                                            Expand table
           Signal                 What is captured
           Table relationships    How records across tables are associated, such as one-to-many and many-to-many
                                  relationships.
           Views                  Public views with join conditions and sub-grid views that define which records and
                                  columns are relevant for a scenario.
           Forms                  The display name of forms that define how records are presented to users.
           Description            Descriptions added to tables and columns that explain what they represent.
           summaries
           Sample data rows       Representative rows showing what data looks like in each column.
            ７ Note
            Sample data rows are turned off by default. System views - including Quick Find, Advanced
            Find, Associated, and Lookup views - and personal views are excluded from signal extraction.
            For forms, only the display name is captured. Polymorphic relationship type isn't supported
            to configure.
         The semantic model regenerates automatically every 12 hours to reflect schema changes. You can
         also trigger a manual regeneration at any time. Initial generation can take up to two hours, and
         incremental changes typically take up to 30 minutes. For details, see Regenerate the semantic
         model.
         Copilot experiences that use the semantic model
         The semantic model is automatically provisioned and consumed by the following Copilot and
         agent experiences when they are set up over Dataverse data:
                Copilot in Power Apps — Available in model-driven apps. For setup information, see Add
                Microsoft 365 Copilot for app users in model-driven apps.
                Microsoft 365 Copilot with Dataverse — Connects Microsoft 365 Copilot to your Dataverse
                data. For setup information, see Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
                Sales Agent in Microsoft 365 — Uses Dataverse data to power sales scenarios. For setup
                information, see Set up Sales agent in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
                Microsoft Copilot Studio agents over Dataverse data — Agents built in Copilot Studio that
                use Dataverse tables as a knowledge source. For setup information, see Add Dataverse
                tables as a knowledge source.
     Known limitations
     The following limitations currently apply:
        No new model creation. You can't currently create a completely new semantic model.
        No ALM support. The semantic model currently doesn't support environment copy or move
        operations. After any environment copy or move, turn Dataverse Intelligence off and back
        on in the Power Platform Admin Center to force a restart.
     For additional questions about the semantic model, see Dataverse semantic model FAQ.
     Related content
        Fine-tune semantic model signals
        Manage semantic model glossary entries
        Regenerate the semantic model
        Dataverse semantic model FAQ
      Last updated on 06/28/2026
        Fine-tune semantic model signals (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        This article explains how to open, configure, and fine-tune the Dataverse semantic model to
        improve agent accuracy and Copilot experiences over your Dataverse data.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  , and are
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
        Prerequisites
             Dataverse Intelligence is enabled for your environment. For setup information, see
             Dataverse data in Microsoft 365 Copilot prerequisites.
             The semantic model has completed its initial generation. More information: How the
             semantic model works
             Dataverse version with Dynamics 365 apps enabled must be 9.2.26054.00125 or later
             version.
             You need either of the following security roles to manage the semantic model:
                System Administrator -or-
                Semantic Model and Environment Maker
           ） Important
           After Dataverse Intelligence is first enabled, an initial sync runs automatically and can take
           up to two hours to complete. During this initial sync, the semantic model page displays a
           generating state. Wait until the initial sync is finished before proceeding.
        Select a semantic model
        The Semantic model page is the central hub for managing all semantic models in your
        environment. From the page, you can view, manage, and edit a semantic model that powers
        agent experiences across Microsoft, including Dataverse MCP, Copilot in Power Apps, Microsoft
        365 Copilot, Sales Agent, and any agent built with Microsoft Copilot Studio over Dataverse data.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   , and open the environment where Dataverse Intelligence is
              enabled.
            2. In the left navigation pane, select More, and if not in the More list, select Discover all, and
              then select Semantic model.
            3. The Semantic model page lists all semantic models available in your environment. Select a
              semantic model from the list to view and manage its signals, AI-generated concepts, and
              glossary.
        The list shows the following columns for each semantic model:
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
          Column               Description
          Name                 The identifier of the semantic model. The name reflects the source that provisioned
                               it. More information: Naming conventions
          Associated apps or   Apps or agents that have access to this semantic model.
          agents
            Tip
           Pin the Semantic model page to the left navigation pane for quick access.
        Naming conventions
        Semantic models are named based on the source that provisioned them. Use the name to
        identify which experience a semantic model belongs to.
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
          Source                             Name format                           Associated apps or agents
          Add Dataverse tables as a          User-configured Dataverse knowledge   custom agent name (user
          knowledge source                   name                                  configurable)
          Source                               Name format                             Associated apps or agents
          Add Microsoft 365 Copilot for app     M365_Secondary_model_<App_name>        Connected app display
          users in model-driven apps -or-                                              name (user configurable)
          Dataverse data in Microsoft 365
          Copilot
          Set up Sales agent in Microsoft 365   SalesSpecificQnA                       Copilot in Dynamics 365
          Copilot -or-                                                                 Sales
          Copilot in Dynamics 365 Sales
          overview
           ７ Note
           Changes you make to a semantic model, including signal settings, table-level controls, and
           glossary entries, only apply to that specific semantic model. They don't affect other semantic
           models in your environment. If multiple apps or agents share the same semantic model (for
           example, Sales Agent and Copilot in Dynamics 365 Sales both use SalesSpecificQnA),
           changes to that model apply to all experiences associated with it.
         Manage the semantic model
         The semantic model overview page shows:
               Sync status. Whether the model is active and the timestamp of the last successful sync in
               local time.
               How your data is understood. Displays which system-inferred signal types are enabled.
               Configuration. Select Configuration to fine-tune model items per table.
               Glossary. Select Glossary to view and manage domain-specific terms and synonyms added
               by makers or included out of the box.
                                                                                                              
         You can control semantic models at multiple levels:
                                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
          Control level      Scope
          Environment        Enable or disable a semantic model generation across the entire environment via Power
          level              Platform admin center.
          Signal-type level  Enable or disable specific signal types across all tables (for example, disable sample data
                             rows globally).
          Table level        Enable or disable semantic understanding for a specific table.
          Item level         Enable or disable a specific view or relationship within a table to improve relevance.
           ） Important
           Computed signals are read-only. You can't directly edit an artifact generated by the system.
           To override system-generated understanding, use the Glossary to add a corrected definition.
           Disabling a signal type or table is the only way to remove its contribution to the semantic
           model.
         Enable or disable a signal type
     You can turn off a signal type, such as table or form summaries, across all tables in the semantic
     model.
      1. From the semantic model overview page, in the How your data is understood area, turn a
       signal On or Off.
      2. Select Save.
     Enable or disable a specific table
     When a table contains sensitive, regulated, or irrelevant data, you can exclude it from the
     semantic model without disabling the entire signal type.
      1. From the semantic model overview page, select Configuration, and search for the table
       display name that you want to enable or disable.
      2. Select the table, and then check or clear Include in semantic model.
      3. Select Save and sync.
       Tip
      You can also turn off table summary, sample table rows, or forms summary, for a table on
      the configuration page.
     Enable or disable a specific table item
     Views and relationships within a table can be individually disabled when they contain outdated,
     incorrect, or misleading data that negatively affects agent responses.
      1. From the semantic model overview page, select Configuration, and search for the table
       display name that you want to disable or enable a view or relationship.
      2. Select Views or select Relationships to see the table's associated views and relationships.
      3. Find the item you want to exclude and turn it On or Off.
      4. Select Save.
     Add and manage glossary entries
     The glossary lets you add business vocabulary that system signals can't infer automatically. Use
     glossary definitions to clarify the terminology used in your Dataverse tables, so agents better
     understand user questions and respond more accurately. More information: Manage semantic
     model glossary entries (preview)
     Trigger a manual regeneration
     The semantic model automatically regenerates every 12 hours. If you want changes to take effect
     immediately — such as updates to signal settings, or Dataverse metadata changes like adding or
     updating views and column descriptions — you can trigger a manual regeneration instead of
     waiting for the next scheduled run. More information: Regenerate the semantic model (preview)
     Enable sample data rows
     The sample data rows signal is disabled by default. When enabled, the system uses sample data
     to read and extract the metadata contained in the sample data rows.
       1. From the semantic model overview page, in the How your data is understood area, turn the
        Sample table rows signal to On.
       2. Select Save.
     Related articles
        Dataverse semantic model overview
        Manage semantic model glossary entries
        Regenerate semantic model
        Dataverse semantic model frequently asked questions (preview)
      Last updated on 06/28/2026
        Manage semantic model glossary
        entries (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        The glossary lets you add business vocabulary that system signals can't infer automatically. Use
        glossary definitions to clarify the terminology used in your Dataverse tables, so agents better
        understand user questions and respond more accurately.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  , and are
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
        Add a glossary entry
           ） Important
           You can't delete system-defined glossary entries, but you can edit them to update the term
           or definition.
           1. Sign in to Power Apps    and select the environment where your semantic model is
             provisioned.
           2. From the semantic model overview, go to Glossary.
           3. Select Add item.
           4. Enter the following:
                   Term. The domain-specific word or acronym, such as "VP."
                   Definition. Enter a clear description of what the term means in your organization, such
                   as "VP" refers to the Vice President value in the "JobTitle" column of the "Contact"
           table.
       5. Select Add term to save.
       Tip
      Write definitions as if you're explaining the term to someone unfamiliar with your
      organization. Precise definitions reduce the chance that agents interpret a term differently
      across different queries.
     After saving, the entry is available to the semantic model. Changes are picked up during the next
     regeneration cycle. To make the entry available immediately, trigger a manual regeneration - see
     Regenerate semantic model.
     Edit an existing glossary entry
     You can update any glossary entry you created to refine its term, definition, or synonyms as your
     organization's terminology evolves.
       1. In the Glossary section of the semantic model, locate the entry you want to update. Use
        search to filter by term name if needed.
       2. Select the entry to open it.
       3. Update the Term, Definition, or Synonyms as needed.
       4. Save your changes.
      ７ Note
      Edits to glossary entries take effect during the next regeneration. Trigger a manual
      regeneration if you need the change reflected immediately.
     Edit a system-defined glossary entry
     Some glossary entries are created automatically by the system as part of the out-of-box semantic
     model. These entries appear alongside your custom entries in the glossary. You can edit them to
     better reflect your organization's terminology, but you can't delete them.
       1. Go to Glossary and search for the term you want to edit.
       2. Select the entry, and then select Edit.
       3. Update the term, definition, or synonyms you want.
       4. Select Save changes.
     Related articles
        Dataverse semantic model overview
        Fine-tune semantic model signals
        Regenerate semantic model
        Dataverse semantic model frequently asked questions (preview)
      Last updated on 06/28/2026
        Regenerate the semantic model (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        The Microsoft Dataverse semantic model automatically regenerates every 12 hours. If you want
        changes to take effect immediately - such as updates to signal settings, or Dataverse metadata
        changes like adding or updating views and column descriptions - trigger a manual regeneration
        instead of waiting for the next scheduled run.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  , and are
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
        Trigger a manual regeneration
        From the semantic model overview, select Regenerate. The button grays out while the
        regeneration job is queued and running.
        After regeneration completes, the overview page refreshes and shows the updated timestamp
        next to the Regenerate button.
           ７ Note
                Regeneration runs across all semantic models in the environment.
                Only changes made before selecting Regenerate are captured in that run. Any changes
                made after are picked up in the next cycle. Use the Last regeneration timestamp to
                confirm which changes are reflected in the current model.
        Related articles
             Overview of Dataverse semantic model (preview)
             Fine-tune semantic model signals (preview)
        Manage semantic model glossary entries (preview)
        Dataverse semantic model frequently asked questions (preview)
      Last updated on 06/28/2026
        Dataverse semantic model frequently asked
        questions (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        This article answers common questions about the Microsoft Dataverse semantic model that gives
        AI agents and Copilot experiences a shared, business-aware understanding of your Dataverse
        data.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  , and are
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
        Why are some views from a table not visible in the
        semantic model?
        Only public views with join conditions and sub-grid views are included in the semantic model.
        These view types are excluded:
             System views. This includes Quick Find, Advanced Find, Associated, and Lookup views.
             Personal views.
        If a view you expect to see is missing, it's most likely one of these excluded types.
        For more information about how views contribute to the semantic model, see Fine-tune semantic
        model signals.
        Why does the semantic model show a
        Regenerating status?
        The Regenerating status appears when a manual regeneration is triggered or the scheduled 12-
        hour regeneration cycle is running. The Regenerate button is grayed out while the regenerate job
     is queued or in progress.
     Wait for the job to complete. The overview page refreshes and displays the updated timestamp
     when regeneration finishes.
      ７ Note
      If the Regenerating status appears stuck for more than 24 hours, turn Dataverse Intelligence
      off and back on in the Power Platform admin center to force a restart.
     How is the semantic model consumed by agents and
     Copilot experiences?
     The semantic model is automatically consumed by the following experiences:
        Copilot in Power Apps
        Microsoft 365 Copilot with Dataverse
        Sales Agent in Microsoft 365
        Microsoft Copilot Studio agents over Dataverse data
     Agents reference the semantic model associated with their app or knowledge source to
     understand and reason over your Dataverse data.
     Why is the semantic model not appearing for my agent
     or Copilot experience?
     Semantic models are available only when the Copilot experience is consuming Dataverse data
     with semantic indexing enabled. For Microsoft 365 Copilot experiences specifically, you must
     enable Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps in the app settings.
     For an overview of which experiences automatically use the semantic model, see Dataverse
     semantic model overview.
     How does the semantic model behave when an
     environment is copied or moved?
     The Dataverse semantic model doesn't currently support application lifecycle management
     (ALM). ALM support will be available when the feature reaches general availability. After any ALM
     action - such as copying or moving an environment - turn Dataverse Intelligence off and back on
     in the Power Platform admin center to force a restart.
     Why can't I delete a glossary entry that was created by
     the system?
     System-defined glossary entries are part of a solution provided by Microsoft and can't be
     deleted. You can edit them to update the term or definition to better reflect your organization's
     terminology.
     For instructions on editing glossary entries, see Manage semantic model glossary entries.
     What does Secondary_model mean in the name of a
     Microsoft 365-enabled semantic model?
     Secondary_model is a naming convention that indicates the semantic model is not ALM-
     compatible. If you see this in a model name, the model doesn't carry over when the environment
     is copied or moved. For details on ALM behavior and the recommended workaround, see How
     does the semantic model behave when an environment is copied or moved?
     How long does it take for the semantic model to reflect
     a newly created or updated view?
     The semantic model automatically regenerates every 12 hours. To reflect a change immediately,
     trigger a manual regeneration from the semantic model overview page by selecting Regenerate.
     Regeneration time depends on the volume of changes:
                                                      ﾉ
                                                        Expand table
      Scenario                Approximate generation time
      Initial generation      Up to 2 hours
      Incremental changes     Up to 30 minutes
     For steps to trigger a manual regeneration, see Regenerate semantic model.
     Related articles
        Dataverse semantic model overview
        Fine-tune semantic model signals
        Manage semantic model glossary entries
        Regenerate semantic model
      Last updated on 06/28/2026
