         Power Fx    Supported in    Limitation or workaround
         formula     plug-ins?
         Defaults    No              Use Collect instead. For example, instead of Patch(account,
                                     Defaults(account), {“Account Name”: “Example Account”}) use
                                     Collect(account, {“Account Name”: “Example Account”}).
        Power Fx formulas supported
        For information about the formulas supported with low-code plug-ins, go to Formula reference-
        Dataverse plug-ins.
        Formulas not currently supported with low-code plug-ins
        Clear
        ClearCollect
        Update
        UpdateIf
        SortByColumns
        Concurrent
        DropColumns
        AddColumns
        IsEmpty
        SetFocus
        IsType
        JSON
        Download
        PlainText
        RemoveIf
    GroupBy
    SetProperty
    RenameColumns
    Search
    ShowColumns
    UTCNow
    UTCToday
    Validate
    Weekday
    As
    Calendar
    Choices
    Clock
    Select
    Notify
    Errors
    HashTags
    ISOWeekNum
    WeekNum
    Refresh
    SaveData, LoadData, and ClearData
     Form-related formulas (EditForm, NewForm, SubmitForm, ResetForm, and ViewForm)
     Device sensor formulas (Acceleration, App, Compass, Connection, and Location)
     See also
     Use Dataverse low-code plug-ins (preview)
      Last updated on 05/27/2026
     Create low-code plug-ins to use with a
     copilot (preview)
     06/23/2025
     [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
     Copilot actions are a way to extend the capabilities of your copilot bots. With Copilot
     generative AI actions, you create custom actions that are triggered by your copilot bot. These
     actions are used to perform a wide range of tasks, such as sending emails, creating records in
     Microsoft Dataverse, or calling external APIs. In this article, you create a basic low-code plug-in
     that adds two integers together and a more complex plug-in that can be used to send a
     notification either of which can be used to create an action in Microsoft Copilot Studio.
       ） Important
          Instant low-code plug-ins are deprioritized and aren't being delivered as a feature.
          Instant low-code plug-ins are replaced with functions. More information: Functions
          in Microsoft Dataverse (preview)
          This is a preview feature.
          Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
          functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers
          can get early access and provide feedback.
     Prerequisites to use the plug-in with Microsoft
     Copilot
     Before you begin, make sure you have the following prerequisites:
        Access to a Dataverse environment that includes the Dataverse Accelerator App for
        creating low-code plug-ins.
        Access to Copilot Studio in the same environment as your Dataverse environment.
     Basic low-code plugin example
     In this example you create a low-code instant plug-in that adds two numbers and returns the
     sum of those numbers. You then create a Copilot action that calls this low-code plug-in to
      perform the addition. The copilot you create works for numbers and arbitrary text queries that
      contain numbers and fractions spelled out.
      To create your basic low-code instant plug-in, follow these steps:
        1. Open the Dataverse Accelerator App in your Dataverse environment by going to Apps >
          All > Dataverse Accelerator App and select Play.
        2. From the Dataverse Accelerator App, select New plug-in and select Instant plug-in.
        3. Enter a descriptive display name for your plug-in. For example Sum numbers, and then
          select Create.
        4. In the Parameters section:
              Add the following input parameters:
                Parameter Name: Number1, Type: Float
                Parameter Name: Number2, Type: Float
              Add the following output parameter:
                Parameter Name: Result, Type: Float
        5. In the Expression section, enter the following code:
            {Result: Number1 + Number2}
                                                                   
        6. Select Save to save your plug-in.
      Create a copilot to call your basic low-code plug-in
    Go to Copilot Studio, and open the environment that has the plug-in.
      1. Create a copilot. More information: Create and configure copilot plugins
      2. Enable generative actions on the copilot. More information: Enable generative actions
      3. Add a generative AI action. When you add the action, search for 'Perform an unbound
       action in selected environment' and select the action. More information: Use Generative
       Actions in Microsoft Copilot Studio
      4. Configure the action with the following details:
         Add a model description that lets the copilot know when to call this action. Use
         plain English to describe the conditions under which this action should be called. For
         example, you can enter "Adds numbers and return the sum of those numbers given
         2 floating point values." More information: Authoring descriptions
         Use these Inputs:
          Change How will the copilot fill this input for the Organization parameter to Set
          as a value.
          Select your current environment (the environment in which you created your low-
          code plug-in) as the value for the Organization parameter.
          Change How will the copilot fill this input for the Action Name parameter to Set
          as a value.
          Select the low-code plug-in you created as the value for the Action Name
          parameter. If you're unsure what the name of your plug-in is you can find it in the
          Dataverse Accelerator App by selecting it from the list and selecting Copy code
          snippet and then pasting the code into a text editor.
         Additional Inputs:
          Add and the following input parameters. Adding additional inputs doesn't
          currently show details in Copilot Studio. You can verify that the inputs were
          added correctly by selecting Open the code edit and reviewing the code, which
          should show the additional inputs under the inputs section in the action YAML:
            Parameter Name: Number1
            Parameter Name: Number2
      5. Save and publish the copilot.
    Test your copilot action
    Follow these steps in the Test copilot pane in Copilot Studio.
      1. Select the sparkle icon at the top of the chat window to start tracing mode. This allows
       you to confirm that your action is being called and verifies the inputs and outputs of your
       action. More information: Testing you copilot using generative actions
      2. Enter the text in the chat window Add 5.2 and 10.3 and select Send.
     If everything is configured correctly, you see the expected result of 15.5 output in the chat
     window and the trace pane shows the inputs and outputs of your action. The trace pane looks
     similar to the following example. You can try some other prompts to test the action further and
     change the language to see how the action responds. Some examples:
        If I have 3 apples and my friend gives me 4 more, how many apples do I have in total?
        If I have 1/2 pounds of cheese and I order another 1/4 pounds, how much cheese do I have
        total?
                                                   
     Send notification low-code plugin example
     In this example you create a low-code instant plug-in that wraps an existing API for use with a
     copilot. The action sends a notification to the user specified in the copilot action when the user
     creating the action tests it in Copilot Studio. The copilot determines the required parameters
     from the plain language query from the user and sends a notification using a Dataverse low-
     code plugin-in to a model-driven app in Power Apps.
     To create your low-code instant plug-in, follow these steps:
       1. Open the Dataverse Accelerator App in your Dataverse environment by going to Apps >
        All > Dataverse Accelerator App and select play.
       2. From the Dataverse Accelerator App, select New plug-in, and then select Instant plug-in.
       3. Enter a descriptive display name for your plug-in. For example, Send in-app notification to
        user and select Create.
         4. In the Parameters section:
              Add the following input parameters:
                Parameter Name: UserName, Type: String
                Parameter Name: Title, Type: String
                Parameter Name: Body, Type: String
                Parameter Name: Url, Type: String
              Add the following output parameter:
                Parameter Name: Result, Type: String
         5. In the Expression section, enter the following code. Notice that we're wrapping the
          existing XSendAppNotification API with the plugin to give the ability to find users by
          name. This behavior helps when called from copilot, which can only provide information
          the user knows about the person and not more esoteric IDs of records that the
          underlying API is expecting:
            PowerApps Formula
            XSendAppNotification(Title,
            First(Filter(Users, UserName in 'Full Name')), 
            Body,
            [XCreateUrlAction("Click Here", Url)]
            );
            {Result: "Success"}
                                                                      
         6. Select Save to save your plug-in.
       Create a copilot to call your send notification low-code plug-
       in
    Go to Copilot Studio, and open the environment that has the plug-in.
      1. Create a copilot. More information: Create and configure copilot plugins
      2. Enable generative actions on the copilot. More information: Enable generative actions
      3. Add a generative AI action. When you add the action, search for 'Perform an unbound
       action in selected environment' and select the action. More information: Use Generative
       Actions in Microsoft Copilot Studio
      4. Configure the action with the following details:
         Add a model description that lets the copilot know when to call this action. Use
         plain English to describe the conditions under which this action should be called. For
         example, you can enter "Calls a Dataverse API to send a notification to a user in
         Dataverse to remind or alert them to something important with a title, body and
         optionally a link for more details." More information: Authoring descriptions
         Use these Inputs:
          Change How will the copilot fill this input for the Organization parameter to Set
          as a value.
          Select your current environment from the dropdown list (the environment in
          which you created your low-code plug-in) as the value for the Organization
          parameter. You need to put your cursor in the textbox in order for the list of
          available environments to show.
          Change How will the copilot fill this input for the Action Name parameter to Set
          as a value.
          Select the low-code plug-in you created as the value for the Action Name
          parameter. You need to put your cursor in the textbox in order for the list of
          available APIs to show. The value to enter here is the schema name of the low-
          code plugin, such as org_SendInAppNotificationToUser. If you're unsure what the
          schema name of your plug-in is you can find it in the Dataverse Accelerator App
          by selecting it from the list and selecting Copy code snippet and then pasting
          the code into a text editor.
         Additional Inputs:
          Select Add and add following input parameters. Notice that adding additional
          inputs doesn't currently show details in Copilot Studio. This is a known issue. You
          can verify that the inputs were added correctly by selecting Open the code edit
          and reviewing the code, which should show the additional inputs under the
          inputs section in the action YAML:
            Parameter Name: UserName
            Parameter Name: Title
            Parameter Name: Body
            Parameter Name: Url
      5. Save and publish the copilot.
          Test your send notification copilot action
          Follow these steps in the Test copilot pane in Copilot Studio.
             1. Select the sparkle icon at the top of the chat window to start tracing mode. This allows
               you to confirm that your action is being called and verifies the inputs and outputs of your
               action. More information: Testing you copilot using generative actions
             2. Enter the text in the chat window Send a notification to my user to check out this url
               https://copilotstudio.microsoft.com   , and then select Send.
          If everything is configured correctly, you see that a notification has been sent in the Test
          copilot pane. The notification is sent as a model-driven in-app notification when the specified
          user plays the app.
                                                                                                       
          You can try some other prompts to test the action further and you could change the plugin to
          be smarter about how it searches for users given a name to see how the action responds. For
          example, you could add a step to search for the user by email address if the name doesn't
          return a result.
          See also
          Use low-code plug-ins in Dataverse
       Microsoft Dataverse low-code plug-ins
       tips and known issues (preview)
       Article • 02/15/2025
       [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
       This article describes tips and known issues when working with low-code plug-ins in
       Microsoft Dataverse.
        ） Important
           Instant low-code plug-ins are deprioritized and aren't being delivered as a
           feature. Instant low-code plug-ins are replaced with functions. More
           information: Functions in Microsoft Dataverse (preview)
           This is a preview feature.
           Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
           functionality. These features are available before an official release so that
           customers can get early access and provide feedback.
       Handle general runtime issues
       If you face runtime plugin issues, re-edit the low-code plug-in. Then the intellisense
       issues on your formula expression are displayed in the low-code plug-in editor. Follow
       the guidelines to correct the issue that are also displayed, and then resave the plug-in.
       Use caution when using post-operation
       patching
       Your low-code plug-in execution might encounter this error when using Patch in a post-
       operation: Execution failed for PowerPlexPlugin: System.ServiceModel.FaultException
       1[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.OrganizationServiceFault] This low-code plugin's execution was
       cancelled because the plugin logic caused an infinite loop. Correct the plugin
       logic and try again.
       Using Patch in a post-operation scenario must be done with caution to avoid infinite
       loops. A Patch operation initiates a new transaction. For example, if an update trigger
       for MyTable invokes Patch(MyTable, ThisRecord, ...), this operation might result in a
       recursive update cycle.
       Here are a couple of examples of operations that can avoid this issue:
          Patch(CurrentTable, SomeOtherRecord, ... ) // For example, updating a
          manager's contact from a contact record.
          Patch(OtherTable, SomeOtherRecord, ... ) // Operations on a completely
          different table.
       Handle the two-minute timeout
       For operations that continue for two minutes or longer, you can receive this error:
       Execution failed for PowerPlexPlugin:
       System.ServiceModel.FaultException1[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.OrganizationServiceFault]:
       Operation not allowed as plugin execution exceeded maximum allowed time (Fault
       Detail is equal to Exception details: limit your callbacks .. Create, Update)
       When working with Dataverse low-code plugins, it’s important to manage the two-
       minute timeout effectively:
          Limit your number of Patch and Collect operations inside your plug-ins,
          especially if you have other plug-ins already registered against that table, which
          can affect the performance of your plug-ins.
          Monitor performance. Keep an eye on the performance of your plug-ins and
          consider using tracing and logging capabilities within Dataverse to track execution
          times and failures. By following these guidelines, you can ensure that your low-
          code plug-ins run smoothly within the Dataverse environment without interruption
          caused by the two-minute timeout. More information: Tracing and logging
       Failed response received from APIM
       If you receive this error message, which can be returned from API management (APIM),
       just edit the plug-in, and then resave. Saving initializes the APIM authentication and
       your plug-in begins executing successfully.
       Execution failed for PowerPlexPlugin: Failed response received from APIM;
       StatusCode: NotFound; ResponseContent: { "statusCode": 404, "message": "Resource
       not found" } Method: POST; RequestUri: https://canada-001.azure-apim.net/invoke;
       StatusCode: NotFound; ResponseContent: { "statusCode": 404, "message": "Resource
              not found" }; HeadersString: Headers - 'Access-Control-Allow-Methods':
              'System.String[]'; 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin': 'System.String[]'; 'Access-
              Control-Max-Age': 'System.String[]'; 'Access-Control-Expose-Headers':
              'System.String[]'; 'Date': 'System.String[]'; Access to APIM expires..edit and save
              the plugin
              See also
              Use low-code plug-ins in Dataverse
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Use custom process actions
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Custom process actions, also known as Custom actions, or just actions open a range of
       possibilities for composing business logic. With custom process actions, you can
       perform operations, such as Create, Update, Delete, Assign, or Perform Action. Internally,
       a custom process action creates a custom message. Developers refer to these actions as
       messages. If the goal of a process is to create a row, then update it, and then assign it,
       there are three separate steps. Each step is defined by the capabilities of the table—not
       necessarily your business process.
       Custom process actions let you define a single verb (or message) that matches an
       operation you need to perform for your business. These new messages are driven by a
       process or behavior rather than what can be done with a table. These messages can
       correspond to verbs like Escalate, Convert, Schedule, Route, or Approve—whatever you
       need. The addition of these verbs helps provide a richer vocabulary for you to fluently
       define your business processes. You can apply this richer vocabulary from clients or
       integrations rather than having to write the action within clients. This also makes it
       easier because you can manage and log the success or failure of the entire action as a
       single unit.
       Configurable messages
       Once an action is defined and activated, a developer can use that message like any of
       the other messages provided by the platform. However, a significant difference is that
       now someone who isn't a developer can apply changes to what should be done when
       that message is used. You can configure the action to modify steps as your business
       processes change. Any custom code that uses that message doesn't need to be changed
       as long as the process arguments don't change.
       Workflow processes and plug-ins continue to provide similar capabilities for defining
       automation. Workflow processes still provide the capability for a nondeveloper to apply
       changes. But the difference is in how the business processes are composed and how a
       developer can write their code. A custom process action is a message that operates on
       the same level as any of the messages provided by the platform. Developers can register
       plug-ins for actions.
        ７ Note
        Custom API is a newer way to define custom messages with many advantages for
        developers. If you do not intend to use the no-code capabilities that custom
        process actions provide to configure business logic, custom API provides better
        capabilities for developers to create their own messages. More information:
           Compare Custom Process Action and custom API
           Create and use custom APIs
       Global messages
       Unlike Microsoft Dataverse workflows or plug-ins, a custom process action doesn’t have
       to be associated with a specific table. You can define global custom process actions that
       can be called on their own.
       Next steps
       Create a custom process action
       Create a custom process action
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Use custom process actions when you want to automate a series of commands in the
       system. Custom process actions expand the vocabulary available for developers to
       express business processes. An custom process action uses core verbs provided by the
       system, such as Create, Update, Delete, and Assign, to create more expressive verbs like
       Approve, Escalate, Route, or Schedule. If the definition of a business process changes,
       someone who isn’t a developer can edit the custom process action so the code doesn’t
       need to be changed.
        ７ Note
        If you intend to write a plug-in to implement your logic for a custom process action
        instead of using the workflow designer, you should use custom API instead. More
        information: Compare Custom Process Action and custom API
       Create a custom process action
        ） Important
        If you’re creating an custom process action to include as part of a solution that will
        be distributed, create it in the context of the solution. Go to Settings > Solutions
        and locate the unmanaged solution that this action will be part of. Then, in the
        menu bar, select New > Process. This ensures that the customization prefix
        associated with the name of the action will be consistent with other components in
        the solution. After you create the action, you can’t change the prefix.
       Like workflow processes, custom process actions have the following properties in the
       Create Process dialog box:
          Process name
          After you enter a name for the process, a unique name will be created for it by
          removing any spaces or special characters from the process name.
          Category
          This property establishes that this is an action process. You can’t change this after
          you save the process.
          Table
          With actions processes, you can select a table to provide context for the workflow
          just like other types of processes, but you also have the option to choose None
          (global). Use this if your action doesn’t require the context of a specific table. You
          can’t change this after you save the process.
          Type
          Use this property to choose whether to build a new custom process action from
          scratch or to start from an existing template.
       Unlike workflow processes, you don’t need to set the following options:
          Start When: Actions start when code calls the message generated for them.
          Scope: Actions always run in the context of the calling user.
          Run in the background: Actions are always real-time workflows.
       Custom process actions also have something that workflow processes don’t—input and
       output arguments.
        ７ Note
        You can enable a custom process action from a workflow without writing code.
        More information: Invoke custom process actions from a workflow
       Edit a custom process action
       You must deactivate custom process actions before you can edit them.
       You can edit an custom process action that was created as part of an unmanaged
       solution or included in a solution installed in your organization. If the solution is a
       managed solution, you might not be able to edit it. The solution publisher has the
       option to edit the managed properties so that the action installed with a managed
       solution can’t be edited.
       When an action is saved, a unique name is generated based on the process name. This
       unique name has the customization prefix added from the solution publisher. This is the
       name of the message that a developer will use in their code.
       When editing an action, you have the following options:
        Process name
        After the process is created and the unique name is generated from the process
        name, you can edit the process name. You might want to apply a naming
        convention to make it easier to locate specific processes.
        Unique name
        When an action is saved, a unique name is generated based on the process name.
        This unique name has the customization prefix from the solution publisher added.
        This is the name of the message that a developer will use in their code. Don’t
        change this unique name if the process has been activated and code is in place
        expecting to call the action using this name.
         ） Important
         After the action is activated and code is written to use a unique name, the
         unique name must not be changed without also changing the code that
         references it.
        Enable rollback
        Generally, processes that support transactions will “undo” (or roll back) the entire
        operation if any part of them fails. There are some exceptions to this. Some actions
        developers might do in code initiated by the custom process action might not
        support transactions. For example, if the code perform actions in other systems
        that are beyond the scope of the transaction. Those can’t be rolled back by the
        action running in an app. Some messages in the platform don’t support
        transactions. But everything you can do just with the user interface of the action
        will support transactions. All the actions that are part of a real-time workflow are
        considered in transaction, but with actions you have the option to opt out of this.
        You should consult with the developer who will use this message to determine
        whether it must be in transaction or not. Generally, an action should be in
        transaction if the actions performed by the business process don’t make sense
        unless all of them are completed successfully. The classic example is transferring
        funds between two bank accounts. If you withdraw funds from one account you
        must deposit them in the other. If either fails, both must fail.
         ７ Note
          You can’t enable rollback if a custom process action is invoked directly from
          within a workflow. You can enable rollback if an action is triggered by a Power
          Apps web services message.
         Activate as
         Like all processes, you can activate the process as a template and use it as an
         advanced starting point for processes that follow a similar pattern.
         Define process arguments
         In this area, you’ll specify any data that the action expects to start and what data
         will be passed out of the action. More information: Define process arguments
         Add stages and steps
         Like other processes, you specify what actions to perform and when to perform
         them. More information: Add stages and steps
       Define process arguments
       When developers use messages, they might begin with some data that they can pass
       into the message. For example, to create a new case row, there might be the case title
       value that is passed in as the input argument.
       When the message is finished, the developer might need to pass some data that was
       changed or generated by the message to another operation in their code. This data is
       the output argument.
       Both input and output arguments must have a name, a type, and some information
       about whether the argument is always required. You can also provide a description.
       The name of the message and the information about all the process arguments
       represent the signature for the message. After an custom process action is activated and
       is being used in code, the signature must not change. If this signature changes, any
       code that uses the message will fail. The only exception to this may be changing one of
       the parameters so that it is not always required.
       You can change the order of the arguments by sorting them or moving them up or
       down because the arguments are identified by name, not by the order. Also, changing
       the description won’t break code using the message.
       Action process argument types
               The following table describes the action process argument types.
                                                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                                                       Expand table
                Type               Description
                Boolean            A true or false value.
                DateTime           A value that stores date and time information.
                Decimal            A number value with decimal precision. Used when precision is extremely
                                   important.
                Table              A row for the specified table. When you select table, the drop-down list is
                                   enabled and allows you to select the table type.
                entityCollection   A collection of table rows.
                entityReference    An object that contains the name, ID, and type of a table row that uniquely
                                   identifies it. When you select entityReference, the drop-down list is enabled and
                                   allows you to select the table type.
                Float              A number value with decimal precision. Used when data comes from a
                                   measurement that isn’t absolutely precise.
                Integer            A whole number.
                Money              A value that stores data about an amount of money.
                Picklist           A value that represents an option for an OptionSet attribute.
                String             A text value.
                  ７ Note
                  entityCollection argument values can’t be set in the user interface for conditions or
                  actions. These are provided for use by developers in custom code. More
                  information: Create your own messages
               Add stages and steps
               Custom process actions are a type of process very similar to real-time workflows. All the
               steps that can be used in real-time workflows can be used in actions. For information
               about the steps that can be used for both real-time workflows and actions, see
               Workflow stages and steps.
       In addition to the steps that can be used for real-time workflows, actions also have the
       Assign Value step. In actions, these can be used only to set output arguments. You can
       use the form assistant to set output arguments to specific values or, more likely, to
       values from the row that the action is running against, rows related to that row with a
       many-to-one relationship, rows created in an earlier step, or values that are part of the
       process itself.
       Managed properties
       Custom process actions have two relevant managed properties
       Is Customizable
       The Is Customizable managed property controls whether on not someone who installs a
       managed solution containing the custom process action can edit or delete it. If wish for
       the custom process action to be edited or deleted when included in a managed
       solution, you should set this property to true.
       Is Custom Processing Step Allowed for Other Publishers
       The Is Custom Processing Step Allowed for Other Publishers managed property
       controls whether third party plug-in developers can register plug-in steps on the
       message created by the custom process action. When this is true, plug-ins registered by
       anyone on this message will run and can modify the behavior of the custom process
       action. When false, only plug-ins steps registered within a solution from the same
       solution publisher will run.
       Next steps
       Invoke custom process actions from a workflow
       Configure custom process actions from
       a workflow
       Article • 02/15/2022
       You can enable a custom process action from a real-time workflow without writing code.
       More information: Invoke custom actions from a workflow
       You also can create a custom process action so that a developer can use it in code, or
       you might need to edit an action that was previously defined. Like real-time workflow
       processes, consider the following:
          What should the action do?
          Under what conditions should the action be performed?
       Unlike real-time workflow processes, you don’t need to set the following options:
          Start When: Custom process actions start when code calls the message generated
          for them.
          Scope: Custom process actions always run in the context of the calling user.
          Run in the background: Custom process actions are always real-time workflows.
       Custom process actions also have something that real-time workflow processes don’t—
       input and output arguments. More information: Define process arguments
       Create a custom process action
        ） Important
        If you’re creating an action to include as part of a solution that will be distributed,
        create it in the context of the solution. Go to Settings > Solutions and locate the
        unmanaged solution that this action will be part of. Then, in the menu bar, select
        New > Process. This ensures that the customization prefix associated with the
        name of the action will be consistent with other components in the solution. After
        you create the action, you can’t change the prefix.
        ７ Note
         If you intend to write a plug-in to implement your logic for a custom process action
         instead of using the workflow designer, you should use custom API instead. More
         information: Compare Custom Process Action and custom API
       Like real-time workflow processes, actions have the following properties in the Create
       Process dialog box:
          Process name
          After you enter a name for the process, a unique name will be created for it by
          removing any spaces or special characters from the process name.
          Category
          This property establishes that this is an action process. You can’t change this after
          you save the process.
          Entity
          With action processes, you can select a table to provide context for the real-time
          workflow just like other types of processes, but you also have the option to choose
          None (global). Use this if your action doesn’t require the context of a specific
          table. You can’t change this after you save the process.
          Type
          Use this property to choose whether to build a new custom process action from
          scratch or to start from an existing template.
       Edit an action
       You must deactivate processes before you can edit them.
       You can edit a custom process action that was created as part of an unmanaged solution
       or included in a solution installed in your organization. If the solution is a managed
       solution, you might not be able to edit it. The solution publisher has the option to edit
       the managed properties so that the action installed with a managed solution can’t be
       edited.
       When an action is saved, a unique name is generated based on the process name. This
       unique name has the customization prefix added from the solution publisher. This is the
       name of the message that a developer will use in their code.
       When editing an action, you have the following options:
        Process Name
        After the process is created and the unique name is generated from the process
        name, you can edit the process name. You might want to apply a naming
        convention to make it easier to locate specific processes.
        Unique Name
        When a custom process action is saved, a unique name is generated based on the
        process name. This unique name has the customization prefix from the solution
        publisher added. This is the name of the message that a developer will use in their
        code. Don’t change this unique name if the process has been activated and code is
        in place expecting to call the action using this name.
         ） Important
         After the action is activated and code is written to use a unique name, the
         unique name must not be changed without also changing the code that
         references it.
        Enable rollback
        Generally, processes that support transactions will “undo” (or roll back) the entire
        operation if any part of them fails. There are exceptions to this. Actions executed in
        code by a developer initiated by the custom process action might not support
        transactions. An example would be when the code perform actions in other
        systems that are beyond the scope of the transaction. Those can’t be rolled back
        by the action running in an app. Some messages in the platform don’t support
        transactions. But everything you can do just with the user interface of the action
        will support transactions. All the actions that are part of a real-time workflow are
        considered in transaction, but with actions you have the option to opt out of this.
        You should consult with the developer who will use this message to determine
        whether it must be in transaction or not. Generally, an action should be in
        transaction if the actions performed by the business process don’t make sense
        unless all of them are completed successfully. The classic example is transferring
        funds between two bank accounts. If you withdraw funds from one account you
        must deposit them in the other. If either fails, both must fail.
         ７ Note
           You can’t enable rollback if a custom process action is invoked directly
           from within a workflow. You can enable rollback if an custom process
           action is triggered by a Power Apps web services message.
           If the action defined does not change data, but only retrieves data, there
           are certain situations where performance can be improved by disabling
           Enable rollback.
        Activate As
        Like all processes, you can activate the process as a template and use it as an
        advanced starting point for processes that follow a similar pattern.
        Define Process Arguments
        In this area, you’ll specify any data that the action expects to start and what data
        will be passed out of the action. More information: Define process arguments
        Add Stages, Conditions and Actions
        Like other processes, you specify what actions to perform and when to perform
        them. More information: Add stages, conditions and actions
      Define process arguments
      When a developer uses a message, they might begin with some data that they can pass
      into the message. For example, to create a new case row, there might be the case title
      value that is passed in as the input argument.
      When the message is finished, the developer might need to pass some data that was
      changed or generated by the message to another operation in their code. This data is
      the output argument.
      Both input and output arguments must have a name, a type, and some information
      about whether the argument is always required. You can also provide a description.
      The name of the message and the information about all the process arguments
      represent the signature for the message. After an action is activated and is being used in
      code, the signature must not change. If this signature changes, any code that uses the
      message will fail. The only exception to this might be changing one of the parameters so
      that it is not always required.
      You can change the order of the arguments by sorting them or moving them up or
      down because the arguments are identified by name, not by the order. Also, changing
      the description won’t break code using the message.
               Action process argument types
               The following table describes the action process argument types.
                                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
                Type               Description
                Boolean            A true or false value.
                DateTime           A value that stores date and time information.
                Decimal            A number value with decimal precision. Used when precision is extremely
                                   important.
                Table              A row for the specified table. When you select Table, the drop-down list is
                                   enabled, allowing you to select the table type.
                entityCollection   A collection of table rows.
                entityReference    An object that contains the name, ID, and type of a table row that uniquely
                                   identifies it. When you select tableReference, the drop-down list is enabled and
                                   allows you to select the table type.
                Float              A number value with decimal precision. Used when data comes from a
                                   measurement that isn’t absolutely precise.
                Integer            A whole number.
                Money              A value that stores data about an amount of money.
                Picklist           A value that represents an option for an OptionSet attribute.
                String             A text value.
                  ７ Note
                  entityCollection argument values can’t be set in the user interface for conditions or
                  actions. These are provided for use by developers in custom code. More
                  information: Create your own messages
               Add stages and steps
               Actions are a type of process very similar to real-time workflows. All the steps that can
               be used in real-time workflows can be used in actions. For information about the steps
               that can be used for both real-time workflows and actions, go to Workflow stages and
               steps.
       In addition to the steps that can be used for real-time workflows, actions also have the
       Assign Value step. In actions, these can be used only to set output arguments. You can
       use the form assistant to set output arguments to specific values or, more likely, to
       values from the row that the action is running against, rows related to that row with a
       many-to-one relationship, rows created in an earlier step, or values that are part of the
       process itself.
       Managed properties
       Custom process actions have two relevant managed properties
       Is Customizable
       The Is Customizable managed property controls whether on not someone who installs a
       managed solution containing the custom process action can edit or delete it. If wish for
       the custom process action to be edited or deleted when included in a managed
       solution, you should set this property to true.
       Is Custom Processing Step Allowed for Other Publishers
       The Is Custom Processing Step Allowed for Other Publishers managed property
       controls whether third party plug-in developers can register plug-in steps on the
       message created by the custom process action. When this is true, plug-ins registered by
       anyone on this message will run and can modify the behavior of the custom process
       action. When false, only plug-ins steps registered within a solution from the same
       solution publisher will run.
       Next steps
       Use actions
       Invoke custom actions from a workflow
       Monitoring real-time workflows and actions
       Invoke custom process actions from a
       workflow
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Workflows have numerous capabilities supporting business scenarios. Calling basic data
       operation actions for a row, such as create, update, and delete, from within a workflow
       solves quite a few business scenarios. However, if you couple the capabilities of the
       workflows with the power of the custom processs actions invoked directly from within a
       workflow, you add a whole new range of business scenarios to your application without
       needing to write code.
       Let’s look at the scenario in which a custom process action is invoked from a workflow.
       We’ll invoke a custom process action to request the manager’s approval when a
       discount for a particular opportunity exceeds 20 percent.
       Example: Create a custom process action using
       the opportunity table
         1. In solution explorer, select Processes.
         2. On the Nav bar, choose New. Give the process a name and choose the Action
          category.
       To request an approval for the discount, we’re using a custom action called Approval
       Process. We added an input parameter, SpecialNotes, and a Send email step to create a
       new message and send a request for the manager’s approval, as shown here.
      To configure the email message, choose Set Properties. When the form opens, use the
      Form Assistant to add special notes and other information to the email, as highlighted
      on the screenshot. To add the special notes, place the cursor where you want the notes
      to appear in the message, and then, in the Form Assistant, under Look for, choose
      Arguments in the first drop-down list and choose SpecialNotes in the second drop-
      down list, and then choose OK.
      Before you can invoke the custom process action from a workflow, you have to activate
      it. After you have activated the action, you can view its properties by choosing View
      properties.
       Invoke a custom process action from a
       workflow
        1. In solution explorer, select Processes.
        2. On the Nav bar, choose New. Give the process a name and choose the Workflow
          category.
       We created a workflow that invokes the Approval Process custom action whenever the
       manager’s approval for a discount of more than 20 percent for an opportunity is
       required.
      You can set the custom process action’s input properties by choosing Set Properties.
      We added a name of the account related to the opportunity in the special notes. In the
      Form Assistant, under Look for, choose Account in the first drop-down list, choose
      Account Name in the second drop-down list, and then choose OK. The Target property
      is required and it is populated by the system. The {Opportunity(Opportunity)} in the
      Target property is the same opportunity that the calling workflow is running on.
      Alternatively, you can choose a specific opportunity for the target property by using
      lookup.
     Solutions in Power Apps overview
     Solutions are used to transport apps and components from one environment to another or to
     apply a set of customizations to existing apps. A solution can contain one or more apps as well
     as other components such as site maps, tables, processes, web resources, choices, flows, and
     more.
     Solutions are the mechanism for implementing application lifecycle management (ALM) in
     Power Apps and other Power Platform products, such as Power Automate.
       ７ Note
       To learn more about the solution concepts and how solutions are used for application
       lifecycle management, go to Overview of ALM with Microsoft Power Platform in the
       Power Platform ALM guide.
     This section focuses on the manual tasks that app makers need to perform while working with
     solutions in Power Apps.
     Get started: solution concepts
     Before you work with solutions, it's important that you get acquainted with the following
     solution concepts:
        Two types of solutions (managed and unmanaged)
        Solution components
        Lifecycle of a solution (create, update, upgrade, and patch a solution)
        Solution publisher
        Solution and solution component dependencies
     To learn more, go to Solution concepts in the Power Platform ALM guide.
     Default solutions
     Power Apps provides you with the following default unmanaged solutions:
        Common Data Service Default Solution. This solution is available for makers to use by
        default for their customizations in an environment. The Common Data Service Default
        Solution is useful when you want to evaluate or learn Power Apps. However, we
        recommend that app makers work in their own unmanaged solutions.
        Default Solution. This is a special solution that contains all components in the system.
        The default solution is useful for discovering all the components and configurations in
        your system.
     However, we recommend that you create a solution to manage your customizations. More
     information: Use a solution to customize in the Power Platform ALM guide.
     Managed properties
     You can control which of your managed solution components are customizable by using
     managed properties. We recommend that you set managed properties so that your managed
     components can’t be modified. This helps protect your solution from modifications that might
     cause it to break after it's imported into another environment, such as test or production.
     More information: Managed properties in the Power Platform
     Work with solutions in Power Apps
     Within Power Apps, you can view a list of solutions by selecting Solutions in the left navigation.
     You can perform these solution tasks:
        New solution: To locate and work with just the components you’ve customized, create a
        solution and do all your customization there. Then, you can easily distribute your solution
        to other environments. More information: Create a solution
        Import solution: Import a solution into your environment. More information: Import
        solutions
        Open AppSource: Microsoft AppSource  is where you can go to get solutions tailored to
        your industry that work with the products you already use.
        Publish all customizations: Publish all active customizations in your environment.
        Set preferred solution: Set your preferred solution where all solution components are
        created in.
        See history: View details about solution operations over time, such as import, export, and
        uninstall. More information: View the history of a solution
        Connect to Git: Source control integration allows development teams to sync solutions
        and solution objects across one or more Dataverse environments using an Azure DevOps
        Git repository. More information: Overview of Git integration in Power Platform
        Switch to classic: Open the classic solution explorer.
     When you select a solution, additional tasks become available on the command bar. These
     tasks include:
        Edit: Edit the solution properties, such as adding or removing solution components.
       Delete. Delete the selected solution.
       Create a plan. Use Plan designer to create a plan for your existing solution. Plan designer
       generates a detailed document that describes your solution. The plan covers the business
       problem, user requirements like user roles and stories, the data model, and technologies
       like apps. This feature saves time when you're trying to understand a solution's content
       and helps makers improve an existing solution. More information: Create a plan from a
       solution
       Export solution: Export the solution to a file that can be imported into another
       environment. More information: Export solutions
       Deploy. Use pipelines in Power Platform to deploy solutions to test and production
       environments. More information: Overview of pipelines in Power Platform
       Solution checker: Run or review results of solution checker for this solution.
       Show dependencies: View the solution components that have a dependency on another
       component. More information: View solution dependencies for solutions that would block
       uninstall of this solution.
       Set preferred solution. Use the selected solution as your preferred solution. The preferred
       solution is where, if not already working in the context of a solution, all your solution
       components are maintained. More information: Preferred solution
       See history. View details about solution operations over time, such as import, export, and
       uninstall. More information: View the history of a solution
       Publish to Catalog: Publishes the solution to the catalog, making it available for other
       makers in your organization to use. This is useful for sharing solutions that you want
       others to be able to import and use in their environments. More information: Catalog in
       Power Platform
       Apply Upgrade: Appears when you select a solution. Apply a pending upgrade that has
       been initiated for a managed solution.
    From the Solutions area, open a solution to view all of its objects.
      Browse through all the objects in a solution by scrolling through the items. If there are more
      than 100 items in the list, you can select Load the next 100 items to see more.
      Columns can be sorted and filtered by selecting the column header.
      Column headers include:
         Managed: The solution object is from a managed solution. You can inspect the object by
         selecting the item and then select Advanced > See solution layers.
         Customizable: The component is available to be customized.
         Customized: This indicates that the object is an unmanaged object, or a managed object
         with an unmanaged customization layer. You can use this column to quickly locate the
         unmanaged changes you have for components in the solution.
         Owner: If the solution object supports user and team ownership, the current owner is
         displayed.
         Status: If the solution object supports state management (on/off, enabled/disabled,
         active/inactive), the status is displayed.
        Tip
       You can quickly locate all solution objects that are unmanaged or have unmanaged
       customizations by selecting the default solution and filtering on the Customized column.
      Search and filter in a solution
      Search for a specific component by its name.
    Or filter all items in the list by the component type.
     Contextual commands
     As you select each component, the actions available in the command bar changes depending
     on the type of the component you have selected and if the solution is the default or a
     managed one.
     When you don't select any component, the command bar shows actions applied to the
     solution itself.
     With solutions that are unmanaged or the default one, you can use the New or Add Existing
     command to create or add different types of components. More information: Add solution
     components
       ７ Note
       You can't add components to a managed solution. When you try to, you’ll get the
       following message:
       "You cannot directly edit the components within a managed solution. You’ll need to
       add it to another unmanaged solution that you’ve created to customize the component.
       The component might not be customizable."
     Additional privileges required
     Some components might require certain Dataverse privileges for users to run the component
     when the component is imported into the environment from a solution.
      Flows
      To use or run a flow from a canvas app that is included in a solution, you must have
      permissions to that flow through someone sharing ownership or run permissions. When an app
      in a solution is shared with a set of users, the flows must also be explicitly shared.
      More information: Security roles and privileges
      Use pipelines in Power Platform to deploy
      solutions
      Easily deploy solutions to test and production environments using pipelines in Power Platform.
      Once pipelines are in place, makers can initiate in-product deployments with a few clicks.
      Makers do so directly within their development environments. More information: Overview of
      pipelines in Power Platform
      Known limitations
      The following limitations apply to the use of canvas apps, flows, and custom connectors in
      solutions.
         If you encounter a canvas app publishing error: the app has connections to flows that
         are no longer in the environment, remove any deleted flows from the app. Then save
         and publish the app.
         Canvas apps shared with Everyone that go through environment backup and
         environment restore operations aren't shared with Everyone in the restored environment.
         Notice that the canvas app can be shared with a security group, and the app in the
         restored environment is shared with that security group.
      To learn more about customizing the individual components in a solution, go to the following
      articles:
         For table, table relationships, column and message customizations, go to Metadata.
         For table forms, go to Forms.
         For processes, go to Processes.
         For business rules, go to Business Rules.
      Troubleshooting solutions
      For known issues and information about how to troubleshoot working with solutions, go to
      Manage apps and solutions in the Power Apps Troubleshooting documentation.
      Next step
      Create a solution
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
       Solution view
       Article • 11/06/2024
       The modern solution view makes it easier for you to work with solution objects and
       subcomponents in your solutions.
       Open solution view
       To open the solution view, sign in to Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) on the left
       navigation pane, select Solutions, and then open the solution you want. If the item isn’t
       in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
       The solution objects and available actions are displayed.
        1. Panes - The left navigation pane consists of the following areas:
            Overview. Provides details about the solution, such as display name, name,
            created on date, version, managed or unmanaged, publisher, description, and
            whether the solution is a patch. Also, solution health information and solution
            actions available on the command bar such as export, clone, apply upgrade,
            and translations.
            Objects. Presents a tree view of all objects within the solution. Select an
            object from the objects list (4) to view or edit it.
            History. Presents the solution operations completed on the solution. An
            operation can be a solution import, export, or uninstall. The solution history
            displays information such as solution version, solution publisher, type of
            operation, operation start and end time, and operation result status.
            Pipelines. Deploy solutions using pipelines in Power Platform. More
            information: Set up pipelines in Power Platform
            Source control (not shown in image). Connect to Git to source your Power
            Platform solution objects in an Azure DevOps Git repo. More information:
            Overview of Dataverse Git integration
        2. Tree view. From the Object pane, the tree view displays a list that you can browse
         to find an object to open it or one of the object’s subcomponents. Search for
         objects and subcomponents that are in the solution.
        3. Command bar. Contextual command bar to perform actions on the solution,
         objects, or subcomponents.
        4. Objects. Displays information and solution components that can be viewed and/or
         opened for editing of the selected object from the Objects pane. Add existing
           objects and subcomponents or create new ones for unmanaged solutions. More
           information: Objects list
          5. Search. Use to filter the list of subcomponents for the object that's currently
           selected. Filter on any subcomponent property. For example, filter on only Lookup
           data types or whether a column is Required by entering those strings in the Search
           box.
                                                         
        Objects list
        The Objects list in solution view has the following columns:
           Display name. The friendly name of the solution object.
           Name. The unique or logical name of the solution object that includes the solution
           publisher prefix.
           Type. Solution object type, such as a table, web resource, model-driven app,
           canvas app, and so on.
           Managed. Indicates whether the solution object is managed or unmanaged.
           Managed solutions aren't typically customizable.
           Customized. Unmanaged solution components are customized while managed
           solution objects typically shouldn't be. If a managed solution object is customized,
           you can remove the customization. More information: View solution layers for a
           component
           Last modified. The date the solution object was last changed.
        See also
        View the history of a solution
        View dependencies for a component
        Create a solution
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
         Create a solution
         To locate and work with just the components you customize, create a solution and do all your
         customization there. Then, always remember to work in the context of the custom solution as
         you add, edit, and create components. This makes it easy to export your solution so that it can
         be backed up or imported to another environment.
            ７ Note
            Consider specifying a custom solution as you preferred solution. This way you can control
            where your solution components are stored when you don't specifically create them in the
            context of a custom solution. More information: Set the preferred solution.
         To create a solution:
            1. Sign in to Power Apps    and select Solutions from the left navigation. If the item isn’t in
              the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            2. Select New solution and then complete the required columns for the solution.
                                                                                       ﾉ
                                                                                           Expand table
                Field            Description
                Display Name     The name shown in the list of solutions. You can change this later.
                Name             The unique name of the solution. Must only contain letters, numbers, and
                                 underscores. The name is generated from the allowed characters from the value
                                 you enter in the Display Name column. You can edit this before you save the
                                 solution, but after you save the solution, you can’t change it.
                Publisher        You can select the default publisher or create a new publisher. We recommend
                                 that you create a publisher for your organization to use consistently across your
                                 environments where you'll use the solution. See Solution publisher later in this
                                 article.
                Version          Enter a number for the version of your solution. This is only important if you
                                 export your solution. The version number is included in the file name when you
                                 export the solution.
                Set as your      Using a preferred solution is a way you can control where your solution
                preferred        components are stored when you don't specifically create them in the context of
                solution         a custom solution. When your preferred solution isn't set, by default, the
                                 Common Data Services Default Solution is your preferred solution. If Common
                                 Data Services Default Solution isn't available, the solution named Default
                 Field            Description
                                  Solution is used as your preferred solution. More information: Set the preferred
                                  solution
                 Configuration    Under More options you can, optionally select a web resource to use as a
                 Page             configuration page. The configuration page is typically used by independent
                                  software vendors (ISVs) who distribute solutions. When this is set, a new
                                  Configuration node appears below the Information node to display this web
                                  resource. Developers use the web resource, which is an HTML page, to include
                                  instructions or controls to allow you to set configuration data or launch their
                                  solution.
                 Description      Under More options you can optionally add a description of the solution. This is
                                  useful if you want to share the solution with others or if you want to remember
                                  what the solution is for.
             3. Select Save.
          Add or remove solution objects
          After you create your solution, it won’t contain any solution objects. You can create new objects
          to add to the solution or add existing objects to your new solution.
          Create objects in a solution
          You can use the New command to create different types of objects. Selecting New and then
          selecting the object you want takes you to a different create experience depending on the
          object type that you choose. After you finish creating the object, it's added to the solution.
          Add an existing object to a solution
          With solutions that are unmanaged and not the system default solution, you can use the Add
          existing command to bring in objects that aren’t already in the solution.
            ７ Note
            The list of existing objects are different depending on the version and solutions imported
            in your environment.
          Many of the customizations you want to do involve tables. Select Tables in the left pane to
          filter and display a list of all the tables in the current solution. Once you drill into a table, you
     can view the objects that are part of the table as shown with the account table in this
     screenshot.
     Remove objects from a solution
     You can remove objects from an unmanaged solution. With the solution open, select the
     object, and then select Remove from this solution on the command bar.
     When the object is removed, it’s no longer part of the solution. However, the object still exists
     in the environment and can be added to another solution. Once the object is removed from all
     solutions in the environment, it can be deleted.
      ） Important
      Once the object is deleted it can't be recovered and all associated data, such as table
      records when you delete a custom table are lost. If you want to keep the object, but not
      have it in the solution, remove it from the solution without deleting it.
     To delete an object, select it, and then select Delete from this environment.
     Publish changes
     When you make unmanaged changes in an environment, some objects, such as tables, forms,
     model-driven apps, site maps, and views are saved in an unpublished state. The publish action
     promotes these changes to an active state and makes them available to end users and for
     solution export.
         Publish your customizations
            1. Select Solutions from the left navigation. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
              More and then select the item you want.
            2. Open the solution that you want to publish.
            3. Select Publish all customizations on the command bar.
           ） Important
           Preparing customizations might take some time. If you see a message that the browser
           page is unresponsive, wait for the page to become responsive, and don't close it.
         Solution publisher
         Every app you create or customization you make is part of a solution. Every solution has a
         publisher. You specify the publisher when you create a solution.
         The solution publisher indicates who developed the app. For this reason, you should create a
         solution publisher that is meaningful. You can view the solution publisher for a solution by
         selecting the solution, and then select ... > Settings on the command bar from the Solutions
         area in Power Apps. For more information about the solution publisher, go to Solution
         publisher in the Power Platform ALM guide.
           ７ Note
           The Common Data Services Default Solution is associated with the Microsoft Dataverse
           Default Publisher. The default customization prefix is randomly assigned for this
           publisher, for example it could be cr8a3. This means that the name of every new item of
           metadata created for your organization in this solution has this prepended to the names
           used to uniquely identify the items.
         Create a solution publisher
            1. In Power Apps  , select Solutions. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More
              and then select the item you want.
            2. On the command bar, select New solution, in the right pane select New publisher under
              Publisher.
            3. In the New Publisher form, enter the required and optional information:
                   Display Name. Enter the display name for the publisher.
                   Name. Enter the unique name for the publisher.
                   Description. Optionally, you can add a description for the publisher.
                   Prefix. Enter the publisher prefix you want.
                   Choice value prefix. This column generates a number based on the publisher prefix.
                   This number is used when you add options to choices and provides an indicator of
                   which solution was used to add the option.
            4. Select Save.
           ７ Note
           Don't use _upgrade as part of the solution name. _upgrade is an internal reserved word
           for the solution upgrade process.
         Change a solution publisher
         You can change a solution publisher for an unmanaged solution by following these steps:
            1. In Power Apps  , select Solutions, select the solution you want, and then select ... >
              Settings on the command bar. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and
              then select the item you want.
            2. In the Solution settings pane, select a different publisher from the Publisher drop down
              list or select New publisher to create a new one. More information: Create a solution
              publisher.
            3. Select Update.
         Use segmented tables in a solution
         Use table segmentation so that you only include table objects that are updated when you
         distribute solution updates. More information: Use segmented solutions in the Power Platform
         ALM guide
         To create a solution with proper table segmentation, start with creating an unmanaged solution
         and add only the objects that you've updated.
         For example, imagine that you've created a new custom table that doesn't exist in any other
         environment named Custom table and also added a new column named Top Ten for the
         account table. To create a solution with table segmentation, follow these steps.
           1. Go to Power Apps    and then select Solutions. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
              select …More and then select the item you want.
           2. Select New solution and create a solution. Enter information in the required columns.
              Select Create.
           3. Open the solution you created. On the command bar, select Add existing, and then select
              Table.
           4. In the Add existing tables pane, select one or more tables you want to add to the
              solution. For example, select Account and Custom table. Select Next.
           5. In the Select tables pane, you can choose from the assets to include:
                   Include all objects. This option includes all components and metadata associated
                   with the table. It can include other tables or table components such as business
                   process flows, reports, connections, and queues. For example, if the custom table
                   has never been imported into the target environment, select this option. In this
                   example, custom table has never been imported into the target environment, so
                   select this option for Custom table.
                   Include table metadata. This option includes only the metadata associated with the
                   table. Metadata includes the table attributes, such as auditing, duplicate detection,
                   or change tracking.
                   Edit objects. This option lets you individually select each component that’s
                   associated with the table, such as columns, relationships, business rules, views,
                   forms, and charts. Notice that the account table is included in Dataverse and by
                   design also exists in the target environment. Therefore, in our example only the Top
                   Ten custom column is new to the account table so you select it after selecting Edit
                   objects (in the next step).
                   Clear all objects. If you selected objects using the Edit objects option, you can clear
                   all the selected objects and start over.
                                                                                            
              More information: Why table segmentation in a solution is important
           6. If you selected Edit objects, an object list pane opens. Here you can select the specific
              objects you want to include in the solution. In our example you selected the Account
              table earlier, so now you select the Top Ten column since that's the only new or edited
       component for the table, and then select Add.
                                            
      7. Select Add to add the objects to the solution.
    Why table segmentation in a solution is important
    When you add an existing system table, such as account or contact, or a custom table to a
    solution for a table that's already been imported into your downstream environments, the best
    practice is to only add the table objects that were updated in your solution. With solution
    segmentation, you export solution updates with selected table assets, such as table columns,
    forms, and views, rather than entire tables with all the assets. This avoids unnecessary layers
    that hinder other solutions from being effective and unnecessary dependencies on other
    solutions. The system automatically selects Include all objects if the table is unmanaged, and
    Include table metadata if there's an unmanaged layer on the table. The system also preselects
    the table assets that are unmanaged or have unmanaged customizations automatically. You
    can select the Edit objects link to review that selection before you select Add to complete the
    process.
     ） Important
     Don't segment tables that don't exist in the target environment. Notice that if a table has
     never been imported or doesn't already exist in the target environment you must select
     Include all objects when you add the table to the solution, such as when adding a new
     custom table that you recently created. Otherwise you receive a missing dependency error
     message when you try to import the solution.
    Create a solution with table segmentation using solution
    explorer
    The following illustrations provide an example of creating a segmented solution by choosing
    table assets from the Account, Case, and Contact tables.
     ７ Note
     The case table is included with some Dynamics 365 applications, such as Dynamics 365
     Customer Service.
    Start by opening an unmanaged solution you created. Choose the table component.
    Then, select the solution components.
    Follow the wizard. In Step 1, starting in alphabetical order, select the assets for the first table,
    the Account table, as shown here.
    Open the Fields tab and select the Account Number column.
    In Step 2, for the Case table, add all assets.
     In Step 3, add the Anniversary column for the Contact table.
     As a result, the segmented solution that’s created contains three tables, Account, Case, and
     Contact. Each table contains only the assets that were chosen.
     Delete a solution
     Because there are two different types of solutions, managed and unmanaged, the behavior for
     deleting each type of solution is different.
     The solution you want to delete might have components that have dependencies on other
     components. These dependencies must be removed before you can delete the component.
     More information: View dependencies for a component in Power Apps
         Delete a managed solution
         Deleting a managed solution removes (uninstalls) all the components within the solution.
         Additionally, all associated data are also deleted.
            Ｕ Caution
            Because all components within the solution and all associated data are deleted, use
            caution when you delete a managed solution.
         Delete an unmanaged solution
         Deleting an unmanaged solution deletes the solution container but doesn't delete any of the
         unmanaged components within. Any data associated also remains. Each unmanaged
         component must be individually deleted to remove all components within the unmanaged
         solution.
         Delete a managed or unmanaged solution
            Ｕ Caution
            Before you delete a solution, make sure you understand the consequences. Once a
            solution is deleted, it can't be restored. More information: Delete a managed solution and
            Delete an unmanaged solution
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and then select (don't open) the solution
              you want to delete in the Solutions list.
            3. Select Delete on the command bar.
         Limitations
              Solution size is limited to 95 MB.
              Number of solutions is limited by Microsoft Dataverse capacity.
              Number of objects in a solution is limited by Dataverse capacity.
         Related articles
              Use solutions
         For developers: Create, export, or import an unmanaged solution
         Power Platform ALM guide
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
            Export solutions
            Article • 03/13/2023
            You can manually export solutions using the steps in this article. We recommend that
            you create an unmanaged solution to use for exporting your customizations, and then
            export your customizations periodically so that you have a backup in case anything
            happens. You can't export managed solutions or the Default Solution.
               ７ Note
               To implement healthy application lifecycle management (ALM) in your organization,
               consider using a source control system to store and collaborate on your solutions,
               and automate the solution export process. More information: ALM basics in the
               Power Platform ALM guide.
            Export from Power Apps
               1. Sign into Power Apps    and select Solutions from the left navigation. If the item
                  isn’t in the left navigation pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
               2. In the list of solutions, select the unmanaged solution you want to export, and then
                  select Export. Notice that you can't export managed solutions.
               3. The Before you export right pane appears. Choose from the following options,
                  and then select Next:
                       Publish all changes. Notice that, when you export an unmanaged solution,
                       only published components are exported. We recommend that you select
                       Publish all changes to make sure all components are included in the
                       exported solution.
               4. The Export this solution right pane appears. Enter or select from the following
                  options, and then select Export:
                       Version number: Power Apps automatically increments your solution version
                       while displaying the current version. You can accept the default version or
                       enter your own.
                       Export as: Select the package type, either Managed or Unmanaged. More
                       information: Managed and unmanaged solutions
                       Run solution checker on export. Run the solution checker against the
                       solution to detect performance and stability issues.
            The export can take several minutes to complete. Once finished, the export .zip file is
            available in the download folder specified by your web browser.
            Export using the classic experience
               1. Sign into Power Apps    and select Solutions from the left navigation. If the item
                  isn’t in the left navigation pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
               2. Select Switch to classic.
               3. In the list select the solution you want to export and then select Export.
               4. In the Publish Customizations step you will be reminded that only published
                 customizations are exported and you will have the option to Publish All
                 Customizations before you select Next.
               5. If your solution contains any missing required components you will see the
                 Missing Required Components step. You can disregard this warning only if you
                 intend to import this as an unmanaged solution back into the original
                 environment. Otherwise, follow the instructions in the dialog to cancel the export
                 and add the required components.
               6. In the Export System Settings (Advanced) step you can choose certain system
                 settings to include in your solution. If your solution depends on any of the groups
                 of system settings, select them and select Next.
                 See Settings options for solution export below for details about the settings that
                 will be included with each option.
               7. In the Package Type step, you must choose whether to export the solution as an
                 Unmanaged or Managed solution.
               8. The next step allows you to choose a target solution for a specific version. This
                 option is typically used by ISVs who may want to export a solution that is
                 compliant with a previous version. Unless you intend to import this solution into an
                 environment that is not upgraded to the same version as the environment version
                 you are using, accept the default.
               9. Select Export to download the solution file.
            The exact behavior for downloading files varies between web browsers.
            Settings options for solution export
            If you export the solution from Power Apps, please disregard this section. The following
            table shows the options available when you export a solution from the classic
            experience.
             Group             Setting                                Description
             Auto-numbering    Campaign Prefix                        Prefix used for campaign
                                                                      numbering.
             Case Prefix       Prefix to use for all cases throughout the
                               app.
                Group                 Setting                                         Description
                Contract Prefix       Prefix to use for all contracts throughout
                                      the app.
                Invoice Prefix        Prefix to use for all invoice numbers
                                      throughout the app.
                Article Prefix        Prefix to use for all articles in the app.
                Order Prefix          Prefix to use for all orders throughout the
                                      app.
                Unique String         Number of characters appended to invoice,
                Length                quote, and order numbers.
                Calendar              Calendar Type                                   Calendar type for the system.
                                                                                      Set to Gregorian US by default
                Date Format Code      Information about how the date is
                                      displayed throughout Microsoft Dataverse
                Date Separator        Character used to separate the month, the
                                      day, and the year in dates throughout the
                                      app.
                Max Appointment       Maximum number of days an appointment
                Duration              can last.
                Show Week             Information that specifies whether to
                Number                display the week number in calendar
                                      displays throughout the app.
                Time Format Code      Information that specifies how the time is
                                      displayed throughout the app.
                Week Start Day        Designated first day of the week
                Code                  throughout the app.
                Customization         Is Application Mode Enabled                     Indicates whether loading of
                                                                                      the app in a browser window
                                                                                      that does not have address,
                                                                                      tool, and menu bars is
                                                                                      enabled.
                Email-tracking        Allow Unresolved Address Email Send             Indicates whether users are
                                                                                      allowed to send email to
                                                                                      unresolved parties (parties
                                                                                      must still have an email
                                                                                      address).
                Group                 Setting                                        Description
                Ignore Internal       Indicates whether incoming email sent by
                Email                 app users or queues should be tracked.
                Max Tracking          Maximum tracking number before
                Number                recycling takes place.
                Render Secure         Flag to render the body of email in the
                Frame For Email       webform in an IFRAME with the
                                      security='restricted' attribute set. This is
                                      additional security but can cause a
                                      credentials prompt.
                Tracking Prefix       History list of tracking token prefixes.
                Tracking Token        Base number used to provide separate
                Base                  tracking token identifiers to users
                                      belonging to different deployments.
                Tracking Token        Number of digits used to represent a
                Digits                tracking token identifier.
                General               Block Attachments                              Prevent upload or download
                                                                                     of certain attachment types
                                                                                     that are considered
                                                                                     dangerous.
                Currency Format       Information about how currency symbols
                Code                  are placed throughout the app.
                Currency Symbol       Currency Symbol
                Full Name Display     Order in which names are to be displayed
                Order                 throughout the app.
                Presence Enabled      Information on whether IM presence is
                                      enabled.
                Negative Format       Information that specifies how negative
                                      numbers are displayed throughout the app.
                Number Format         Specification of how numbers are displayed
                                      throughout the app.
                Pricing Decimal       Number of decimal places that can be used
                Precision             for prices.
                Share To Previous     Information that specifies whether to share
                Owner On Assign       to previous owner on assign.
               Group                Setting                                       Description
               Marketing            Allow Automatic Response Creation             Indicates whether automatic
                                                                                  response creation is allowed
               Allow Automatic      Indicates whether automatic unsubscribe is
               Unsubscribe          allowed.
               Allow Automatic      Indicates whether automatic unsubscribe
               Unsubscribe          acknowledgement email is allowed to send.
               Acknowledgement
               Allow Marketing      Indicates whether marketing emails
               Email Execution      execution is allowed.
               Outlook              Allow Address Book Synchronization            Indicates whether background
               Synchronization                                                    address book synchronization
                                                                                  in Microsoft Office Outlook is
                                                                                  allowed.
               Allow Offline        Indicates whether background offline
               Scheduled            synchronization in Outlook is allowed.
               Synchronization
               Allow Scheduled      Indicates whether scheduled
               Synchronization      synchronizations to Outlook are allowed.
               Email Send Polling   Normal polling frequency used for sending
               Frequency            email in Outlook.
               Min Address          Normal polling frequency used for address
               Synchronization      book synchronization in Outlook.
               Frequency
               Min Offline          Normal polling frequency used for
               Synchronization      background offline synchronization in
               Frequency            Outlook.
               Min                  Minimum allowed time between scheduled
               Synchronization      Outlook synchronizations.
               Frequency
               Auto-Tag Max         Maximum number of aggressive polling
               Cycles               cycles executed for email auto-tagging
                                    when a new email is received.
               Auto-Tag Interval    Normal polling frequency used for email
                                    auto-tagging in Outlook.
               ISV Config           Service Calendar Appearance Configuration     You can define visual styles for
                                                                                  service calendars.
      More information: Service Calendar Appearance Configuration
      See also
      Import solutions  
      Update solutions  
      For developers: Create, export, or import an unmanaged solution
    Import solutions
    You can manually import solutions using the steps in this article. You must import only those
    solutions that you've obtained from a trusted source.
    Solutions are packages of customizations that can be exported from one environment and
    imported into another. Solutions can be managed or unmanaged. Managed solutions are
    intended for production use, while unmanaged solutions are typically used during development.
     ７ Note
       You need the create privilege to import a component. Although the System Customizer
       security role has create privilege on most components that you commonly import, by
       default it doesn't have create privilege on the Plug-In Assembly table. The System
       Administrator security role has this privilege.
       When you import a managed solution, all component changes are brought into the
       environment in a published state. However, when you import an unmanaged solution,
       the changes are imported in a draft state so you must publish them to make them
       active.
       To implement healthy application lifecycle management (ALM) in your organization,
       consider using a source control system to store and collaborate on your solutions, and
       automate the solution import process. More information: ALM basics in the Power
       Platform ALM guide.
       The maximum size of a solution file is 95 MB.
    When you import an unmanaged solution:
      You add all the components of that solution into your environment and can't delete the
      components by deleting the solution. Deleting the unmanaged solution deletes only the
      solution container.
      If the solution contains customized components, the existing customizations to the
      component are overwritten after the unmanaged solution import. You can't undo this
      action.
    To import a solution:
           1. Sign into Power Apps   and select Solutions from the left navigation. If the item isn’t in the
             side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
           2. On the command bar, select Import solution.
           3. On the Import a solution page, select from where you want to import the solution:
                  This device. Select Browse to locate the compressed (.zip or .cab) file located on your
                  device that contains the solution you want to import.
                  Pipeline. Select this option to import a solution from a pipeline. To use this option, you
                  must have the solution set up in a pipeline. More information: Overview of pipelines in
                  Power Platform.
           4. Select Next.
           5. Information about the solution is displayed. By default, in the Advanced settings section, if
             plugin steps (also known as SDK message processing steps) and flows exist in the solution,
             they'll be imported. Clear the Enable Plugin steps and flows included in the solution
             option if you don't want the import to attempt to activate any plugin steps that are
             imported in an inactive state. Flows will not be deactivated when the option is unchecked.
           6. If your solution contains connection references, you're prompted to select the connections
             you want. If a connection doesn't already exist, create a new one. Select Next.
           7. If your solution contains environment variables, you're prompted to enter values. You won't
             see this screen if values are already present in your solution or the target environment.
           8. If missing dependencies are detected in the target environment, a list of the dependencies
             is presented. In environments where the required package version is available for import in
             the target environment, a link to resolve the dependency is presented. Selecting the link
             takes you to the Power Platform admin center where you can install the application update.
             After the application update is completed, you can start the solution import again.
           9. Select Import.
        Your solution imports in the background and might take a few moments.
        If you import any changes that require publishing, you must publish customizations before
        they're available.
        If the import isn't successful, you see a notification on the solutions page showing any errors or
        warnings that were captured. Select Download Log File to capture details about what caused the
      import to fail. The most common cause for an import to fail is that the solution didn't contain
      some required components.
      When you download the log file, you find an XML file that you can open by using Office Excel to
      view the contents.
        ７ Note
        You can view the details of all solution operations, including solution import, by using the
        solution history feature. To view these operations, select See history on the solutions page.
      Troubleshooting solution import
      For known issues and information about how to troubleshoot working with solutions, go to
      Manage apps and solutions in the Power Apps Troubleshooting documentation.
      Importing apps that use an on-premises data
      gateway ID
      When you import a Power Apps app that uses an on-premises data gateway ID, note the
      following requirements:
          The connection to the gateway must be a shared connection.
          The connections must be removed and then added back with the correct gateway ID after
          solution import into the target environment.
      See also
          Update solutions
          Export solutions
          Publish changes
          For developers: Create, export, or import an unmanaged solution
          Import a solution (Power Automate)
      ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
       Last updated on 05/27/2026
     Set the preferred solution
     By default, unless you're already in the context of an unmanaged solution when you create an
     object, all solution objects are stored in the solution named Common Data Services Default
     Solution. For most situations, you don't want to create your solution objects in either of the two
     Dataverse system solutions, which are the Common Data Services Default Solution and the Default
     Solution. This article explains why using the system solutions is discouraged and provides step-
     by-step instructions to set and manage your preferred solution.
     Why not create your objects in the system solutions?
     There are a few reasons you shouldn't create your solution objects in either the Common Data
     Services Solution and the Default Solution:
        There's no control over the separation of solution objects between makers. All objects can
        be viewed from the Default Solution and the Common Data Services Solution is the default
        solution so other makers can and likely are using it.
        The Default Solution can't be exported for import to other environments.
        You can't change the solution publisher for the Default Solution. Additionally, since the
        solutions already exist, you can't change the solution publisher prefix for either system
        solutions. More information: Solution publisher
     Using preferred solutions is a way to determine which solutions contain each maker's edits that
     occur in Power Apps. Setting the preferred solution enables makers to view and update which
     solution they're using. After you set your preferred solution, you can create objects in the
     solution you specify and those objects will automatically be in that solution so that you control
     the objects within the solution. Then, you can export your preferred solution and import the
     solution to other Microsoft Dataverse environments.
      ７ Note
      When your preferred solution isn't set, by default, the Common Data Services Default
      Solution is your preferred solution. If Common Data Services Default Solution isn't
      available, the solution named Default Solution is used as your preferred solution. You can
      change this to your desired solution by following the steps in this article. For more
          information about the Common Data Services Default Solution and Default Solution, go to
          Default solutions.
        Prerequisites
        We recommend that admins enable the Cloud flows and Canvas apps environment setting in
        Power Platform. Enabling this feature ensures cloud flows are also stored in Dataverse and that
        they're added to the maker's preferred solution. More information: Create new canvas apps and
        cloud flows in a Dataverse solution
        Set your preferred solution
           1. Sign into Power Apps  , and then select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the item
             isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
           2. Select the unmanaged solution that you want to make your preferred solution. Don't have
             one? More information: Create a solution
           3. Select Set preferred solution on the command bar.
        Once your preferred solution is set, notice the preferred solution indicator, which can be viewed
        from the Solutions area or when you hover over the Environment switcher.
        Deleting a preferred solution
        You can delete your preferred solution or a preferred solution that other makers have also set as
        their preferred solution.
        ２ Warning
        When you delete a preferred solution, you receive a warning that includes the fallback
        default solution and the number of other makers who are using the same solution. Delete an
        active solution only when you're sure it won't impact your work or the work of other makers.
      Limitations
           You can't set or view the preferred solution in the classic solution explorer.
           Components that are created in the classic solution explorer won't go into the preferred
           solution.
           Preferred solution currently doesn't work with Dataverse for Teams, cards, dataflows, AI
           Builder, chatbots, connections, gateways, custom connectors, Power Automate flows
           (limited), and canvas apps created from image or a Figma design.
           When a component is already part of an existing unmanaged solution, it will still be added
           to the preferred solution.
      See also
      Solutions overview
      Set the preferred solution with Power Apps (video)
       Last updated on 05/20/2026
     View solution deployments on the
     deployment page
     Article • 05/14/2025
     From the Solutions page, makers can navigate to Deployments to view all of their solution
     deployments, across all solutions and pipelines, in one place. If their deployment began from
     (or was deployed to) the current environment, they're able to view its status and other details.
                                                     
     Get started
     When you first access the Deployment page, you notice the Get started section. This section
     currently offers several links to relevant documents designed to help makers gain a better
     understanding of solutions, pipelines, and the in-product Application Lifecycle Management
     (ALM) process.
     Failed deployments
     On the left of the overview, makers can view failed deployments if any. When you select each
     deployment, a panel appears, highlighting the necessary actions to either retry or revise the
     solution, ensuring a successful deployment.
     Active deployments
     On the right of the overview, makers view their ongoing deployments. When makers select
     these deployments, they can view the in-progress details of the deployment, such as waiting
      for a predeployment approval. The active deployments page is useful for makers who work in
      multiple solutions that are deploying simultaneously.
      Deployment history
      At the bottom of the overview, makers view their deployment history. This section provides a
      comprehensive list of all deployments, including the deployment status, the solution, the
      pipeline, and the environment. Makers can filter this list by solution, pipeline, and environment
      to quickly find the deployment they're looking for. This run history view is unique. First it's
      filtered to only show the current user's deployments specifically to and from this environment,
      and second it's upleveled to show all the current user's deployments, not just involving one
      solution or pipeline. Selecting a deployment in this grid shows a details panel, summarizing all
      the deployment information and displaying the deployment notes as well.
      Retry failed deployments
      Deployments shown as Failed in the run history view can be deployed by selecting Retry in the
      details panel if the operation was Deploy. A confirmation message appears when you confirm
      the retry.
      Take action with advisor-powered
      recommendations
      Actionable recommendations for improving ALM health within your environment is shown in
      the Take action section at the bottom of the Deployment page. These recommendations help
      ensure that makers are following the best practices to enable healthy ALM within the
      organization.
      Why can't I see solution deployments other than
      those that I initiated?
      In order to view others' solution deployments, you must have the Deployment Pipeline
      Administrator security role or equivalent privileges to view other deployments.
      Related articles
      Use pipelines in Power Platform to deploy solutions
      View solution deployments on the deployment page for admins
       Use pipelines in Power Platform to
       deploy solutions
       Article • 02/23/2023
       Easily deploy solutions to test and production environments using pipelines in Power
       Platform. Once pipelines are in place, makers can initiate in-product deployments with a
       few clicks. Makers do so directly within their development environments. More
       information: Overview of pipelines in Power Platform
       See also
       Solutions overview
        Upgrade or update a solution
        There are times when you need to update an existing managed solution. To update the solution,
        follow these steps:
           1. Open the unmanaged solution in your development environment and create new or add
             and remove the existing components that you want.
           2. Increment the version number when you export the solution as a managed solution. More
             information: Understanding version numbers for updates
           3. Apply the upgrade or update in the target environment.
        Apply the upgrade or update in the target environment
        The procedure to import the updated solution is similar to installing a new managed solution,
        except you'll get some different options. If you're updating a solution you got from someone
        else, you should get guidance from the solution publisher about which options you should
        choose.
           1. Sign into Power Apps  , select the target environment you want, and then select Solutions
             from the left navigation. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then
             select the item you want.
     2. On the command bar, select Import.
     3. On the Select Solution Package page, select Browse to locate the compressed (.zip or .cab)
      file that contains the solution you want to update.
     4. Select Next.
     5. This page displays a yellow bar indicating This solution package contains an update for a
      solution that is already installed. To upgrade the solution, select Next. To view additional
      options, expand Advanced settings, and then select from the following solution action
      options:
         Upgrade This is the default option and upgrades your solution to the latest version
         and rolls up all previous patches in one step. Any components associated to the
         previous solution version that aren't in the newer solution version will be deleted. This
         option ensures that your resulting configuration state is consistent with the importing
         solution including removal of components that are no longer part of the solution.
         Stage for Upgrade This option upgrades your solution to the higher version, but
         defers the deletion of the previous version and any related patches until you apply a
         solution upgrade later. Select this option only if you want to have both the old and
         new solutions installed in the system concurrently so that you can do some data
         migration before you complete the solution upgrade. Applying the upgrade deletes
         the old solution and any components that aren't included in the new solution.
         Update This option replaces your solution with this version. Components that aren't in
         the newer solution won't be deleted and remains in the system. Be aware that the
         source and destination environment may differ if components were deleted in the
         source environment. This option has the best performance by typically finishing in less
         time than the upgrade methods.
     6. Decide whether to enable the following option for post import actions:
         Enable plug-in steps and flows included in the solution
         Selecting this option enables plug-ins and Power Automate flows that are included in
         the solution.
     7. Select Import.
      8. You might need to wait a few moments while the solution import completes. If it's
       successful, you can view the results and select Close.
     Managed customizations are always imported in a published state, so there's no need to publish
     customizations after import in this scenario.
     Completing Solution Upgrade If you chose to stage for upgrade, or if the system had an issue
     completing an upgrade, you'll see that you have the original solution still installed in your system
     as well as a new solution that has the same solution name as the base solution suffixed with
     _Upgrade. To complete the upgrade, select the base solution in the solution list and select Apply
     Solution Upgrade. This uninstalls all previous patches and the base solution then rename the
     _Upgrade solution to be the same name as the previous base solution. Any components that
     were in the original solution and patches that aren't present in the _Upgrade solution will be
     deleted as part of this process.
      ７ Note
      Recent changes in the platform have optimized the single step upgrade process to no longer
      use a temporary _Upgrade solution or use an uninstall operation on the original solution.
     Understanding version numbers for updates
     A solution's version has the following format: major.minor.build.revision. An update must have a
     higher major, minor, build, or revision number than the parent solution. For example, for a base
     solution version 3.1.5.7, a small update could be a version 3.1.5.8 or a slightly more significant
     update could have version 3.1.7.0. A substantially more significant update could be version
     3.2.0.0.
     Removing a managed component from the
     target environment
     There might be occasions when you want to remove a managed component from an
     environment. There are two different solution actions that you can perform that will remove a
     managed component from an environment.
       Upgrade the solution (recommended). In the development environment where the
       managed solution originated, update the solution so that it no longer includes the
       component. In other words, remove the component such as a column, chart, or form from
           the solution and then export it as managed. Then, when you import the managed solution
           into the target environment, choose the Solution action as Upgrade. This action removes
           the component (if there aren't any other components that depend on it in the target
           environment).
           Delete the managed solution. This action removes all components in the solution. In the
           environment where the managed solution was imported, delete the managed solution that
           includes the managed component. You can do this from the Solutions area of Power Apps.
            ２ Warning
            Deleting a managed solution deletes all the components in the managed solution as
            well as any related data. Always use caution before deleting a managed solution.
      Overwrite customizations option
      The option to overwrite customizations is available with the classic import experience, when using
      the Microsoft Power Platform CLI pac solution import command, or by using the
       OverwriteUnmanagedCustomizations option with the ImportSolution or ImportSolutionAsync
      messages. More information: ImportSolutionRequest class, ImportSolution action, or
      ImportSolutionAsync action.
        ） Important
        Selecting the Overwrite Customizations (not recommended) option overwrites or removes
        any unmanaged customizations previously performed on components included in this
        solution. This option doesn't affect components that support merge behavior (forms,
        sitemap, ribbon, app modules). Components that have other managed solutions on top of
        the existing solution you're replacing aren't affected by this option.
      See also
      Layering within a managed solution Add solution components
      Create solution patches
      For developers: Cloning, patching, and upgrading
       Last updated on 05/27/2026
     Solution layers
     Managed and unmanaged solutions exist at different levels within a Microsoft Power Platform
     environment. In Microsoft Dataverse, there are two distinct layer levels:
        Unmanaged layer. All imported unmanaged solutions and unmanaged customizations
        exist at this layer. The unmanaged layer is a single layer.
        Managed layers. All imported managed solutions and the system solution exist at this
        level. When multiple managed solutions are installed, the last one installed is above the
        managed solution installed previously. This means that the second solution installed can
        customize the one installed before it. When two managed solutions have conflicting
        definitions, the runtime behavior is either “Last one wins” or a merge logic is
        implemented. If you uninstall a managed solution, the managed solution below it takes
        effect. If you uninstall all managed solutions, the default behavior defined within the
        system solution is applied. At the base of the managed layers level is the system layer.
        The system layer contains the tables and components that are required for the platform
        to function.
     Solution merge behavior
     When you prepare your managed solution for distribution, remember that an environment
     might have multiple solutions installed or that other solutions might be installed in the future.
     Construct a solution that follows best practices so that your solution doesn't interfere with
     other solutions.
     The processes that Dataverse uses to merge customizations emphasize maintaining the
     functionality of the solution. While every effort is made to preserve the presentation, some
     incompatibilities between customizations might require that the computed resolution will
     change some presentation details in favor of maintaining the customization functionality. More
     information: Understand how managed solutions are merged
     View the solution layers for a component
     The see solution layers feature allows you to view all component changes that occur due to
     solution changes over time. Within a solution layer, you can drill down to view specific changed
     and unchanged property details for a component. You can access solution layers from the
     Solutions area in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com).
     The see solution layers feature:
        Lets you see the order in which a solution changed a component.
        Lets you view all properties of a component within a specific solution, including the
        changes to the component.
        Can be used to troubleshoot dependency or solution-layering issues by displaying
        change details for a component that was introduced by a solution change.
       1. Sign in to Power Apps, select Solutions, open the solution you want, select a component,
        such as the Account table, and then on the command bar select Advanced > See
        solution layers.
       2. The solution layer page appears. It displays each layer for the component, such as the
        Active Accounts view for the Account table used as an example here, with the most
        recent layer at the top, which is typically indicated as the Active layer. The active layer
        determines the runtime behavior of the component.
       3. To view the details for a solution layer, select it. The Properties pane is displayed. The
        Updated tab displays only those properties that were modified as part of the specific
        solution layer. Select the All Properties tab to view all properties, including changed and
        unchanged properties, for the solution layer.
                                                     
       4. If the component includes translations that have been imported, select the Localized
        Labels tab to display information for components that have label columns in the solution
                  layer. The base language and any imported translation text are displayed as indicated in
                  the languageid column. Note that if no labels exist the tab isn't displayed.
                  Select a label to see its full layering.
           There are other tabs available for specific component solution layers.
                                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
             Tab name                              Description                                       Possible value
             RolePrivileges                        Displays the privileges for a security role.      Added, Updated,
                                                                                                     Removed, Unchanged
             AttributePicklistValues               When selected for a global choice ,               Added, Updated,
             (optionset)                           displays the possible values for a choice .       Removed, Unchanged
             AttributePicklistValues               When selected for a choice attribute,             Added, Updated,
             (optionset attribute)                 displays the values for the attribute.            Removed, Unchanged
           Remove an unmanaged layer
           Unmanaged customizations reside at the top layer for a component and subsequently define
           the runtime behavior of the component. In most situations you don't want unmanaged
           customizations determining the behavior of your components in your test and production
           environments.
     ） Important
        By design, your dev and maker environments where you're working with unmanaged
        components typically have unmanaged layers.
        If the unmanaged layer you want to remove is the only layer and as such the base
        layer for the component, you can’t remove it with the remove active customizations
        command. To remove the layer, you have to delete the unmanaged component.
        More information: Remove objects from a solution.
    To remove the unmanaged layer for a component, follow these steps:
     ２ Warning
     Removing active unmanaged customizations can't be reversed or undone. All data
     associated with the unmanaged customization can be lost.
      1. Open the solution you want, select ... next to a component, such as Account, and then
       select See solution layers.
      2. If an unmanaged layer exists, Unmanaged layer is displayed in the Solution column for
       the layer.
      3. Select the layer, and then on the command bar, select Remove active customizations.
    See also
    Translate localizable text for model-driven apps
    Solutions overview
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
        View the history of a solution
        View details about solution operations from the Solutions area of Power Apps. An operation can
        be a solution import, export, or uninstall. The solution history displays information such as
        solution version, solution publisher, type of operation, operation start and end time, and
        operation status.
          ７ Note
          The system automatically deletes solution history records that are older than 180 days.
        View solution history
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
             More and then select the item you want.
           3. select the solution you want, and then on the command bar select See history.
             The history is displayed.
        Select a solution operation to display the Information page. Each solution history row is read-
        only and includes the following in the Details area:
             Name. The solution unique name.
             Start time. The time in which the operation started.
             End time: The time in which the operation ended.
             Version. The version of the solution.
             Publisher. The name of the publisher that is associated with the operation.
             Operation. The operation, such as import, export, or delete.
      Suboperation: Denotes the type of operation, such as a new solution import or an update
      to an existing solution.
      Result. The result of the operation, such as Success or Failure.
     ７ Note
       Recent changes have optimized the single step upgrade process to no longer use a
       temporary _Upgrade solution. As a result, you no longer experience an uninstall operation
       for single stage upgrades in the solution history.
      View solution operation error details
      Below the Details area is the More details area that has additional information about the solution
      and, when a solution operation has a failure, the information includes:
         The Error code of the error returned from the operation.
         The Exception message, which can help diagnose the underlying cause for the operation
         failure. Some errors, including solution dependency errors, may also include links to solution
         layers to make it easier for you to diagnose the issue.
         The Activity Id can be useful in cases where you need to contact Microsoft Customer
         Support.
      See also
      View solution layers
      Solutions overview
      Last updated on 05/20/2026
        View dependencies for a component in
        Power Apps
        Article • 03/22/2024
        Solution components in Microsoft Dataverse often depend on other solution
        components. You can’t delete any solution component that has dependencies from
        another solution component. For example, you can't delete a model-driven app site
        map component without first deleting the model-driven app component, or removing
        the dependency, because the site map depends on the model-driven app.
        You can view the dependent components from the Solutions area of Power Apps.
        Show dependencies
        The show dependencies page for a component helps identify the dependencies so you
        can take appropriate action.
        This section describes the actions you can take while viewing the dependencies in the
        Show dependencies menu under Advanced.
        Dependencies page contents
        The Dependencies page displays details about all the components that have a
        dependency on the solution component. They're grouped by the solution's name.
        The Dependencies page has tabs covering reports for Delete blocked by, Used by, and
        Uses:
           Delete blocked by: The report lists all the dependencies that block the delete of
           the solution component. Unless these dependencies are removed or the
           component is deleted, the solution component delete remains blocked.
           Used by: The report lists all the dependencies of other components that are using
           this solution component.
           Uses: This report lists all the dependencies that the given solution component
           uses.
        Dependencies page actions
        The Dependencies page has multiple actions you can take for each dependency. The
        actions can be used to inspect, delete the component, or remove a dependency with the
      listed dependencies.
      To choose an action, select the vertical ellipsis next to any component and then select
      one of the following actions:
        Open: This action takes you to the particular component using the default solution.
        The open action helps you navigate to the component where you can inspect or
        edit it.
        Delete: This action allows you to delete the component. Ensure to use this action
        only if the component is no longer required and can be deleted. This action is
        available only for unmanaged components.
        Remove dependency: This action allows you to remove the dependency of the
        component on the solution component. The system attempts to edit the
        component to remove the dependency. In the event, when the system is
        unsuccessful in removing the dependency you might have to do a manual edit.
        This feature is currently available for the following components:
          Entity's dependency on WebResource
          SystemForm's dependency on Attribute and Role
          AppModule's dependency on SavedQuery, SavedQueryVisualization, Entity, and
          SystemForm
        Open documentation: This action allows you to open documentation where you
        can learn about the dependencies for that component type.
      You can also select a grouped solution and perform delete solution action:
      Delete Solution: If you need to delete (uninstall) a solution that has dependencies on
      the solution component, use Delete. This action deletes the solution.
      See also
      For developers: Detect solution dependencies
    Environment variables for Power Platform
    overview
    Environment variables enable the basic application lifecycle management (ALM) scenario of
    moving an application between Power Platform environments. In this scenario, the application
    stays exactly the same except for a few key external application references (such as tables,
    connections, and keys) that are different between the source environment and the destination
    environment. The application requires the structure of the tables or connections to be exactly
    the same between the source and the destination environments, with some differences.
    Environment variables allow you to specify which of these different external references should
    be updated as the application is moved across environments.
    Environment variables store the parameter keys and values, which then serve as input to
    various other application objects. Separating the parameters from the consuming objects
    allows you to change the values within the same environment or when you migrate solutions
    to other environments. The alternative is leaving hard-coded parameter values within the
    components that use them. This approach is often problematic; especially when the values
    need to be changed during ALM operations. Because environment variables are solution
    components, you can transport the references (keys) and change the values when solutions are
    migrated to other environments.
    Benefits of using environment variables:
       Provide new parameter values while importing solutions to other environments.
       Store configuration for the data sources used in canvas apps and flows. For example,
       SharePoint Online site and list parameters can be stored as environment variables. This
       approach allows you to connect to different sites and lists in different environments
       without needing to modify the apps and flows.
       Package and transport your customization and configuration together and manage them
       in a single location.
       Package and transport secrets, such as credentials used by different components,
       separately from the components that use them.
       One environment variable can be used across many different solution components -
       whether they're the same type of component or different. For example, a canvas app and
       a flow can use the same environment variable. When the value of the environment
       variable needs to change, you only need to change one value.
       Additionally, if you need to retire a data source in production environments, you can
       update the environment variable values with information for the new data source. The
       apps and flows don't require modification and start using the new data source.
       Supported by SolutionPackager and DevOps tools enable continuous integration and
       continuous delivery (CI/CD).
       The environment variables can be unpacked and stored in source control. You might also
       store different environment variables values files for the separate configuration needed in
       different environments. Solution Packager can then accept the file corresponding to the
       environment the solution is imported to.
     How do environment variables work?
     Environment variables can be created and modified within the modern solution interface. They
     can also be automatically created when connecting to certain data sources in canvas apps or
     with code. They can also be imported to an environment via solutions. Environment variables
     can be used as inputs when authoring canvas apps, Power Automate flows, plug-ins, and
     adding Power BI dashboards to model-driven apps. When you use environment variables, the
     values are then derived from the environment variables, and can be changed when solutions
     are imported to other environments.
     Manually create an environment variable in a solution
      1. Sign in to Power Apps (make.powerapps.com), and then on the left pane select Solutions.
       If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
      2. Open the solution you want or create a new one.
      3. On the command bar, select New > More, and then select Environment variable.
      4. On the right pane, complete the following columns, and then select Save:
          Display name. Enter a name for the environment variable.
          Name. The unique name is automatically generated from the Display name, but you
          can change it.
          Data Type. Select from Decimal number, Text, JSON, Two options, Data source, or
          Secret.
           ７ Note
             If Data source is the selected type, you need to select the connector, a valid
             connection for the selected connector, and the parameter type. The
             connection isn't stored as part of the environment variable. The environment
             variable stores information not in the connection that is necessary to
             connect Power Apps to the right server and table. The connection is only
             used for retrieving available parameter values such as the SharePoint sites
             you have access to, or the lists associated with a site.
           If Secret is the selected type, additional information to set up and configure
           Azure Key Vault is needed to allow Power Platform to access the secret.
         Current Value. Also known as the value. This property is optional and is a part of the
         environment variable value table. A defined value is used even if a default value is
         also present. Remove the value from your solution if you don't want to use it in the
         next environment. The values are also separated into separate JSON files within the
         exported solution.zip file and can be edited offline. More information: How do I
         remove a value from an environment variable?
         Default Value. This column is part of the environment variable definition table and
         isn't required. The default value is used if there's no current value.
         Separation of default value and current value allows you to service the definition
         and the default value separately from the value. For example, an application
         publisher might list their offer on AppSource with a default value. Then optionally,
         the customer can provide a new value. When the application publisher publishes
         updates to the application, the value set by the customer isn't overwritten.
          ７ Note
          A value can't exist without a definition. The interface only allows creation of one
          value per definition.
    Power Apps can automatically create environment variables
    On the General tab of Power Apps settings:
       Enable the Automatically create environment variables when adding data sources
       option. Now, when you add a new data source to your app, it adds an environment
       variable for you.
    Different data sources
    Different data sources enable different types of environment variables.
    Microsoft Dataverse
    Power Apps connects natively to Dataverse. You don't need an environment variable for tables
    in your current environment. When you connect to Dataverse, your application automatically
    looks for exactly the same table name in any environment you port it. As long as your table
    name structure is the same in the target environment as it is in the original environment, it
    works.
    If you use an external table from a different environment (via Change Environment), then
    Power Apps assumes you want to always refer to the exact same table. You need an
    environment variable if you need that external table to be a different external table when you
    move from dev to test or to prod. It's easiest to allow Power Apps to automatically create the
    environment variable for you. (If you previously added the table to your app, then turn on the
    settings switch, drop the external table, and then add it back.)
    When you add the external table to your app, choose the Advanced tab to select the
    environment variable.
    SharePoint
    SharePoint supports only Microsoft Entra connections. So, for SharePoint, in addition to a valid
    connection, a separate environment variable is required for Site and List.
    To successfully use environment variables with SharePoint lists:
       The display name and the logical name for each corresponding column in the source and
       target environments must match.
       Environment variables for SharePoint must have matching metadata. SharePoint has
       internal identifiers that might not match between target environments. For example, if
       you create a list with the same name and columns in a target environment, the internal
       names won't match. The metadata always matches if you duplicate a SharePoint site and
       copy it to your target environment.
    SQL Server
    SQL Server supports many different types of authentication and connections. Use environment
    variables for Microsoft Entra connections. A separate environment variable is required for the
    server and the database. The application is bound to specific table names so they're assumed
    to be the same between environments.
    Don't use environment variables for shared connections such as basic SQL authentication with
    SQL Server. Use connection references for information that is traditionally passed as part of the
    connection string. Basic SQL auth parameters are all part of the connection string. For example,
    the Server and Database name are provided when creating the connection and therefore are
    always derived from the connection.
     Data source environment variables are used for connectors with authentication like Microsoft
     Entra. In these types of connections, Power Apps only has an identified user. Power Apps can't
     derive what service or table you intend to work with from the connection.
     Enter new values while importing solutions
     The modern solution import interface includes the ability to enter values for environment
     variables. This sets the value property on the environmentvariablevalue table.
     Environment variable values are visible when importing solutions or when using Pipelines to
     deploy. Environment variables without a default value or value prompt for a value, but those
     otherwise are prefilled with a label beneath the text area denoting the value's source: solution
     value, target environment value, or default value.
      ７ Note
         In some cases, for specific data source environment variable values, an Access
         denied warning might appear if the importing maker doesn't have access to the
         connection or source used for the environment variable. This is a nonblocking
         warning, but something to take note of depending on how you plan to use the
         environment variable in the target environment.
         You can remove the value from your solution before exporting the solution. This
         ensures the existing value remains in your development environment, but won't get
         exported in the solution. This approach allows a new value to be provided while
          importing the solution into other environments. More information: How do I remove
          a value from an environment variable?
     Notifications
     A notification is displayed when the environment variables don't have any values. Set the
     values so that components dependent on environment variables don't fail.
     Security
     The environmentvariabledefinition table is user or team owned. When you create an
     application that uses environment variables, be sure to assign users the appropriate level of
     privilege to this table. Permission to the environmentvariablevalue table is inherited from the
     parent environmentvariabledefinition table and therefore doesn't require separate privileges.
     Privileges for environmentvariabledefinition tables are included in Environment Maker and
     Basic User security roles by default. More information: Security in Dataverse.
     Naming
     Ensure environment variable names are unique so they can be referenced accurately. Duplicate
     environment variable display names make environment variables difficult to differentiate and
     use. Ensure environment variable names are unique so they can be referenced accurately. The
     names $authentication and $connection are specially reserved parameters for flows and
     should be avoided. Flow save is blocked if environment variables with those names are used. If
     an environment variable is used in a flow and the display name of the environment variable is
     changed, then the designer shows both the old and new display name tokens to help with
     identification. When updating the flow, we recommend you remove the environment variable
     reference and add it again.
     Current limitations
        Validation of environment variable values happens within the user interfaces and within
        the components that use them, but not within Dataverse. Therefore ensure proper values
        are set if they're being modified through code.
        Power Platform Build Tools tasks aren't yet available for managing data source
        environment variables. However, this doesn't block their usage within Microsoft provided
        tooling and within source control systems.
        Interacting with environment variables via custom code requires an API call to fetch the
        values; there isn't a cache exposed for non-Microsoft code to use.
        Environment variables are limited to a maximum of 2,000 characters.
     Frequently asked questions
     Why can't I see the value for my environment variable?
     If the environment variable is in a managed solution, you won't be able to see the value unless
     you look inside of the Default solution. This behavior is by design, since the environment
     variable value is an unmanaged customization.
     How can I view where environment variables are being used?
     Either through selecting Show dependencies in the solution interface, while authoring
     components, or in source control and in the solution file by viewing the app or flow metadata.
     Are data source environment variables the same as
     connections?
     No. Although they're related, a connection represents a credential or authentication required
     to interact with the connector. Data source environment variables store parameters that are
     required by one or more actions in the connector and these parameters often vary depending
     on the action. For example, a SharePoint Online connection doesn't store any information
     about sites, lists, or document libraries. Therefore calling the connector requires both a valid
     connection and some more parameters.
     Can my automated ALM pipeline use different values files for
     different environments?
     Yes. Solution packager accepts file name as input parameters so your pipeline can pack a
     different values file into the solution depending on the environment type it’s executing against.
     Should I include the value in my solution?
     No. Environment variables are intended to be used by applications that need to have different
     values in different environments where the solution is deployed. Environment variable
     definitions should be included in your solution but the values should be provided for the target
     environment during deployment. This behavior results in the environment variable definition
      being a managed solution object in the target environment while the environment variable is
      an unmanaged record.
      Why can't I delete a value in my environment?
      If the value was included in a managed solution, the only way to delete the value is to update
      the solution in the source environment to exclude the value, then export a new version of the
      solution. This new version then can be imported into the environment using an upgrade
      operation (not an update), resulting in the value record being deleted.
      What if someone inadvertently deletes a value?
      If not already prevented by dependency system, runtime uses the last known value as a
      fallback.
      If a value is changed, when does the new value get used in
      canvas apps and cloud flows?
      It might take up to an hour to fully publish updated environment variables because the value is
      pushed into the apps and flows asynchronously.
      Are premium licenses required?
      No. While ALM requires Dataverse (or Dynamics 365 apps), use of premium connectors isn't
      required. The one caveat is if you're using the Dataverse connector to interact with
      environment variables as you would with other data records like accounts or contacts.
      Previously this was the only way to use environment variables in canvas apps and flows.
      Is there a limit to the number of environment variables I can
      have?
      No. However, the max size of a solution is 95 MB. More information: Create a solution
      Can environment variable display names and descriptions be
      localized?
      Yes.
    Should I use environment variables instead of storing
    configuration data in custom tables?
    Yes if your configuration data isn't relational. Environment variables should be used for key:
    value pairs and when the value likely needs to different in other environments. Other tools such
    as the Configuration migration utility are better suited for migration of relational configuration
    data stored within custom tables. Unlike other configuration data, environment variables are
    migrated within solutions and therefore much simpler to manage and more performant to
    import.
    Why isn't my connection saved for data source environment
    variables?
    Connections are only used to generate the user interface. For example, to retrieve friendly
    names for SharePoint lists associated with a site. When editing a data source environment
    variable, be sure to select a connection with access to the data source. If you no longer have
    access to the connection, you can manually enter a value. For example, enter the SharePoint
    site URL or unique identifier (GUID) for a list.
    When there are multiple connections available for a single (data source-type) environment
    variable, there's a by-design implementation to select the first connection in the list of
    connections. Because there's usually only one connection associated with an environment
    variable, this isn't something that usually needs to be validated. Additionally, with recent
    changes to environment variable value visibility, this is easier to validate upon import.
    How do I remove a value from an environment variable?
    You might want to remove the value of an environment variable from your solution before
    exporting the solution. Then, the existing value remains in your development environment, but
    isn't exported in the solution. This approach allows a new value to be provided while importing
    the solution into another environment.
    To remove the value, follow these steps:
      1. In the solution where the environment variable is located select the environment variable
       to display the properties.
      2. Under Current Value, select ... > Remove from this solution.
    Can I use environment variables in custom connectors?
    Yes. Environment variable support in custom connectors
    See also
    Use data source environment variables in canvas apps
    Use environment variables in Power Automate solution cloud flows
    EnvironmentVariableDefinition table/entity reference
    Web API samples
    Use data source environment variables in Canvas apps
      Use environment variables in Power Automate solution cloud flows
      Use Azure Key Vault secrets
      Environment variable support in custom connectors
      Power Apps Blog: Environment variables available in preview!
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
     Use data source environment variables in
     canvas apps
     In this article, you learn about using data source environment variables in canvas apps. You can
     either use pre-existing data source environment variables, or create data source environment
     variables automatically when connecting to data.
     Use pre-existing data source environment variables
     Environment variables can be reused across other apps and even different types of resources like
     cloud flows. You might wish to first create them within your solution and later use them while
     authoring canvas apps and cloud flows.
      1. Follow the steps to manually create an environment variable in a solution.
      2. Edit or create a canvas app from your solution.
      3. Add a new data source for SharePoint online.
      4. Select the Advanced tab. You'll see a filtered list of environment variables that you have
        access to and that match the parameter being set. For example, when you select the
        SharePoint site, you'll see a list of all data source environment variables with Connector as
        SharePoint and Parameter type as Site. The same is true when selecting SharePoint lists for
        a given site.
      5. Select the desired environment variable(s), and then select Connect.
      ） Important
         If an environment variable from a different solution is selected, a dependency will exist
         on the solution containing the environment variable. Therefore, be sure to either:
           Add the environment variable to your current solution prior to exporting.
           Ensure the solution containing the environment variable is imported to the
           destination environment before your current solution is imported.
     Automatically create data source environment variables
     when connecting to data
      This option provides simplicity and ensures environment variables are always used for data
      sources, such as SharePoint Online. However, some customers prefer to provide their own
      schema names and therefore should create them from solutions.
        ７ Note
        Pre-existing canvas apps don't automatically use data source environment variables. Remove
        the data source from the app and add them back using the above steps to upgrade these
        apps to use environment variables.
         1. Edit or create a canvas app from your solution.
         2. Select Settings > General and enable the setting to Automatically create environment
          variables when adding data sources.
         3. Add a New data source for SharePoint online.
         4. Select a SharePoint site, one or more lists, and then Connect.
            ７ Note
            To prevent creation of duplicate environment variables, you're prompted to use the
            existing environment variable when duplicates are identified. You can clear the option
            to use the existing environment variable if creation of a duplicate is desired.
         5. Select Save.
      See also
      Create canvas app from scratch using Dataverse.
      Use environment variables in Power Automate solution cloud flows
      Environment variables overview
       Last updated on 04/27/2026
     Use environment variables in Power
     Automate solution cloud flows
     Environment variables can be used in solution cloud flows since they're available in the dynamic
     content selector. All types of environment variables can be used in triggers and actions.
     To use an environment variable in a solution cloud flow:
       1. Edit or create a cloud flow in a solution.
       2. In an action or a trigger, determine the parameter that you want to use for the environment
        variable:
        a. If the parameter takes a simple value, such as a string or number, enter the parameter.
        b. If the parameter is a lookup, scroll to the bottom of the lookup, and then select Enter
          custom value. Environment variables that you have access to are listed in the Dynamic
          content selector with other dynamic content.
       3. Select the desired environment variable.
     Limitations
        When environment variable values are changed directly within an environment instead of
        through an ALM operation like solution import, flows will continue using the previous value
         until the flow is either saved or turned off and turned on again.
         When editing a cloud flow, the environment variables shown in the dynamic content
         selector are unfiltered, but will be filtered by data type in the future.
         When editing a cloud flow, if an environment variable is added in another browser tab, the
         flow needs to be reopened in the flow designer to refresh the dynamic content selector.
     See also
     Use data source environment variables in canvas apps
     Create a flow with Dataverse
     Environment variables overview.
      Last updated on 04/27/2026
     Use environment variables for Azure Key
     Vault secrets
     Environment variables allow for referencing secrets stored in Azure Key Vault. These secrets are
     then made available for use within Power Automate flows and custom connectors. Notice that
     the secrets aren't available for use in other customizations or generally via the API.
     The actual secrets are stored in Azure Key Vault and the environment variable references the
     key vault secret location. Using Azure Key Vault secrets with environment variables require that
     you configure Azure Key Vault so that Power Platform can read the specific secrets you want to
     reference.
     Environment variables referencing secrets aren't currently available from the dynamic content
     selector for use in Power Automate flows.
     Configure Azure Key Vault
     To use Azure Key Vault secrets with Power Platform, the Azure subscription that has the vault
     must have the PowerPlatform resource provider registered and the user who creates the
     environment variable must have appropriate permissions to the Azure Key Vault resource.
      ） Important
         There are recent changes to the security role used to assert access permissions
         within Azure Key Vault. Previous instructions included assigning the Key Vault Reader
         role. If you have set up your key vault previously with the Key Vault Reader role,
         make sure that you add the Key Vault Secrets User role to ensure that your users and
         Microsoft Dataverse have sufficient permission to retrieve the secrets.
         We recognize that our service is using the Azure role-based access control APIs to
         assess security role assignment even if you still have your key vault configured to use
         the vault access policy permission model. To simplify your configuration, we
         recommended that you switch your vault permission model to Azure role-based
         access control. You can do this on the Access configuration tab.
       1. Register the Microsoft.PowerPlatform resource provider in your Azure subscription.
        Follow these steps to verify and configure: Resource providers and resource types
      2. Create an Azure Key Vault vault. Consider using a separate vault for every Power Platform
       environment to minimize the threat in case of a breach. Consider configuring your key
       vault to use Azure role-based access control for the Permission model. More
       information: Best practices for using Azure Key Vault, Quickstart - Create an Azure Key
       Vault with the Azure portal
      3. Users who create or use environment variables of type secret must have permission to
       retrieve the secret contents. To grant a new user the ability to use the secret, select the
       Access control (IAM) area, select Add, and then select Add role assignment from the
       dropdown. More information: Provide access to Key Vault keys, certificates, and secrets
       with an Azure role-based access control
      4. On the Add role assignment wizard, leave the default assignment type as Job function
       roles and continue to the Role tab. Locate the Key Vault Secrets User role and select it.
       Continue to the members tab and select the Select members link and locate the user in
       the side panel. When you have the user selected and shown on the members section,
       continue to the review and assign tab and complete the wizard.
      5. Azure Key Vault must have the Key Vault Secrets User role granted to the Dataverse
       service principal. If it doesn't exist for this vault, add a new access policy using the same
       method you previously used for the end user permission, only using the Dataverse
       application identity instead of the user. If you have multiple Dataverse service principals in
       your tenant, then we recommend that you select them all and save the role assignment.
       Once the role is assigned, review each Dataverse item listed in the role assignments list
              and select the Dataverse name to view the details. If the Application ID isn't 00000007-
              0000-0000-c000-000000000000**, then select the identity, and then select Remove to
              remove it from the list.
            6. If you have enabled Azure Key Vault Firewall, you have to allow Power Platform IP
              addresses access to your key vault. Power Platform isn't included in the "Trusted Services
              Only" option. Go to Power Platform URLs and IP address ranges for the current IP
              addresses used in the service.
            7. If you haven't done so already, add a secret to your new vault. More information: Azure
              Quickstart - Set and retrieve a secret from Key Vault using Azure portal
         Create a new environment variable for the Key
         Vault secret
         Once Azure Key Vault is configured and you have a secret registered in your vault, you can now
         reference it within Power Apps using an environment variable.
           ７ Note
                User access validation for the secret is performed in the background. If the user
                doesn’t have at least read permission, this validation error is displayed: "This variable
                didn't save properly. User isn't authorized to read secrets from 'Azure Key Vault
                path'."
                Currently, Azure Key Vault is the only secret store that is supported with environment
                variables.
                The Azure Key Vault must be in the same tenant as your Power Platform subscription.
            1. Sign on to Power Apps  , and in the Solutions area, open the unmanaged solution you're
              using for development.
            2. Select New > More > Environment variable.
            3. Enter a Display name and optionally, a Description for the environment variable.
            4. Select the Data Type as Secret and Secret Store as Azure Key Vault.
            5. Choose from the following options:
                   Select New Azure Key Vault value reference. After the information is added in the
                   next step and saved, an environment variable value record is created.
                    Expand Show default value, to display the fields to create a Default Azure Key Vault
                    secret. After the information is added in the next step and saved, the default value
                    demarcation is added to the environment variable definition record.
            6. Enter the following information:
                    Azure Subscription ID: The Azure subscription ID associated with the key vault.
                    Resource Group Name: The Azure resource group where the key vault that contains
                    the secret is located.
                    Azure Key Vault Name: The name of the key vault that contains the secret.
                    Secret Name: The name of the secret located in Azure Key Vault.
                       Tip
                      The subscription ID, resource group name, and key vault name can be found on
                      the Azure portal Overview page of the key vault. The secret name can be found
                      on the key vault page in the Azure portal by selecting Secrets under Settings.
            7. Select Save.
         Create a Power Automate flow to test the
         environment variable secret
         A simple scenario to demonstrate how to use a secret obtained from Azure Key Vault is to
         create a Power Automate flow to use the secret to authenticate against a web service.
           ７ Note
           The URI for the web service in this example isn't a functioning web service.
            1. Sign into Power Apps  , select Solutions, and then open the unmanaged solution you
              want. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you
              want.
            2. Select New > Automation > Cloud flow > Instant.
            3. Enter a name for the flow, select Manually trigger a flow, and then select Create.
      4. Select New step, select the Microsoft Dataverse connector, and then on the Actions tab
       select Perform an unbound action.
      5. Select the action named RetrieveEnvironmentVariableSecretValue from the dropdown
       list.
      6. Provide the environment variable unique name (not the display name) added in the
       previous section, for this example new_TestSecret is used.
      7. Select ... > Rename to rename the action so that it can be more easily referenced in the
       next action. In this screenshot, it's renamed to GetSecret.
      8. Select ... > Settings to display the GetSecret action settings.
      9. Enable the Secure Outputs option in the settings, and then select Done. This is to prevent
       the output of the action getting exposed in the flow run history.
      10. Select New step, search, and select the HTTP connector.
      11. Select the Method as GET and enter the URI for the web service. In this example, the
        fictitious web service httpbin.org is used.
      12. Select Show advanced options, select the Authentication as Basic, and then enter the
        Username.
      13. Select the Password field, and then on the Dynamic content tab under the flow step
        name above (GetSecret in this example) select
        RetrieveEnvironmentVariableSecretValueResponse EnvironmentVariableSecretValue,
        which is then added as an expression outputs('GetSecretTest')?
        ['body/EnvironmentVariableSecretValue'] or body('GetSecretTest')
        ['EnvironmentVariableSecretValue'].
     14. Select ... > Settings to display the HTTP action settings.
     15. Enable the Secure Inputs and Secure Outputs options in the settings, and then
       select Done. Enabling these options prevents the input and outputs of the action getting
       exposed in the flow run history.
     16. Select Save to create the flow.
     17. Manually run the flow to test it.
       Using the run history of the flow, the outputs can be verified.
     Use environment variable secrets in Microsoft
     Copilot Studio
     Environment variable secrets in Microsoft Copilot Studio work a bit differently. You need to run
     through the steps in the sections in Configure Azure Key Vault and Create a new environment
     variable for the Key Vault secret to use secrets with environment variables.
     Give Copilot Studio access to Azure Key Vault
     Follow these steps:
       1. Go back to your Azure Key Vault.
            2. Copilot Studio needs access to the key vault. To grant Copilot Studio the ability to use the
               secret, select Access control (IAM) on the left navigation, select Add, and then select Add
               role assignment.
            3. Select the Key Vault Secrets User role, and then select Next.
            4. Select Select Members, search for Microsoft Copilot Studio Service, select it, and then
               choose Select.
            5. Select Review + assign on the bottom of the screen. Review the information and select
               Review + assign again if all is correct.
         Add a tag to allow a copilot to access the secret in Azure Key
         Vault
         By completing the previous steps in this section, Copilot Studio now has access to the Azure
         Key Vault, but you can't use it yet. To complete the task, follow these steps:
            1. Go to Microsoft Copilot Studio    and open the agent you want to use for the
               environment variable secret or create a new one.
            2. Open an agent topic or create a new one.
            3. Select the + icon to add a node, and then select Send a message.
            4. Select the Insert variable {x} option in the Send a message node.
            5. Select the Environment tab. Select the environment variable secret you created in the
               Create a new environment variable for the Key Vault secret step.
            6. Select Save to save your topic.
      7. In the test pane, test your topic by using one of the start phrases of the topic where you
       just added the Send a message node with the environment variable secret. You should
       run into an error that looks like this:
       This means you need to go back to Azure Key Vault and edit the secret. Leave Copilot
       Studio open, because you come back here later.
      8. Go to Azure Key Vault. In the left navigation, select Secrets under Objects. Select the
       secret you want to make available in Copilot Studio by selecting the name.
      9. Select the version of the secret.
     10. Select 0 tags next to Tags. Add a Tag Name and a Tag Value. The error message in
       Copilot Studio should give you the exact values of those two properties. Under Tag Name
       you need to add AllowedBots and in Tag Value you need to add the value that was
       displayed in the error message. This value is formatted as {envId}/{schemaName}. If there
       are multiple copilots that need to be allowed, separate the values with a comma. When
       done, select OK.
     11. Select Apply to apply the tag to the secret.
      12. Go back to Copilot Studio. Select Refresh in the Test your copilot pane.
      13. In the test pane, test your topic again by using one of the start phrases of the topic.
     The value of your secret should be shown in the test panel.
     Add a tag to allow all copilots in an environment access to the
     secret in Azure Key Vault
     Alternatively, you can allow all copilots in an environment access to the secret in Azure Key
     Vault. To complete the task, follow these steps:
       1. Go to Azure Key Vault. In the left navigation, select Secrets under Objects. Select the
        secret you want to make available in Copilot Studio by selecting the name.
       2. Select the version of the secret.
       3. Select 0 tags next to Tags. Add a Tag Name and a Tag Value. Under Tag Name add
        AllowedEnvironments and in Tag Value add the environment ID of the environment you
        want to allow. When done, select OK
       4. Select Apply to apply the tag to the secret.
     Limitation
     Environment variables referencing Azure Key Vault secrets are currently limited for use with
     Power Automate flows, Copilot Studio agents, and custom connectors.
     Integrate Azure Key Vault private link with
     environment variables
     Using Azure Key Vault secrets with environment variables requires configuring Azure Key Vault
     so that Power Platform can read the specific secrets you want to reference. This capability
     enables support for environment variables with Azure Key Vault secrets connecting via a private
     link, enhancing security and providing a more robust integration.
       1. Set up Azure Virtual Network support for Power Platform to integrate environment
        variables with Azure Key Vault secrets without exposing them to the public internet. For
        detailed instructions, go to set up virtual network.
       2. Ensure that the Azure subscription for Key Vault and Power Platform Virtual Network are
        in the same tenant, as cross-tenant integration isn't supported.
        3. Ensure that the user who creates the environment variables has appropriate permissions
          to the Azure Key Vault resource. For more details, go to Configure the Azure key Vault
        4. Create a key vault and establish a private link connection. The steps to create the key
          vault should include the following actions:
             Disable public access.
             Create a private endpoint.
             Select the virtual network and subnet where you want this private endpoint to be
             created. Ensure to connect the Virtual Network (virtual network) delegated to Power
             Platform.
             Validate the private link connectivity.
          For detailed steps, go to Set up Virtual Network support for Power Platform.
        5. Create environment variables secrets by linking to the Azure Key Vault.
      See also
      Use data source environment variables in canvas apps
      Use environment variables in Power Automate solution cloud flows
      Environment variables overview.
       Last updated on 01/09/2026
       Environment variables frequently asked
       questions
       Article • 10/25/2024
       In this article find the frequently asked question (FAQs) for environment variables.
       Why can't I see the value for my environment
       variable?
       If the environment variable is in a managed solution, you won't be able to see the value
       unless you look inside of the Default solution. This behavior is by design, since the
       environment variable value is an unmanaged customization.
       How can I view where environment variables
       are being used?
       Either through selecting Show dependencies in the solution interface, while authoring
       components, or in source control and in the solution file by viewing the app or flow
       metadata.
       Are data source environment variables the
       same as connections?
       No. Although they're related. A connection represents a credential or authentication
       required to interact with the connector. Data source environment variables store
       parameters that are required by one or more actions in the connector and these
       parameters often vary depending on the action. For example, a SharePoint Online
       connection doesn't store any information about sites, lists, or document libraries.
       Therefore calling the connector requires both a valid connection and some additional
       parameters.
       Can data source environment variables be used
       with shared connections such as SQL Server
       with SQL authentication?
       Generally no. Shared connections with SQL Server store the parameters required to
       connect to data within the connection. For example, the Server and Database name are
       provided when creating the connection and therefore are always derived from the
       connection.
       Data source environment variables are used for connectors that rely on user based
       authentication such as Microsoft Entra ID because the parameters can't be derived from
       the connection. For these reasons authentication with SQL Server, which is a shared
       connection, won't use data source environment variables.
       Can my automated ALM pipeline use different
       values files for different environments?
       Yes. Solution packager accepts file name as input parameters so your pipeline can pack
       a different values file into the solution depending on the environment type it’s executing
       against.
       What if someone inadvertently deletes a value?
       If not already prevented by dependency system, runtime uses the last known value as a
       fallback.
       If a value is changed, when does the new value
       get used in canvas apps and cloud flows?
       It may take up to an hour to fully publish updated environment variables because the
       value is pushed into the apps and flows asynchronously.
       Are premium licenses required?
       No. While ALM requires Dataverse (or Dynamics 365 for Customer Engagement), use of
       premium connectors isn't required. The one caveat is if you're using the Dataverse
       connector to interact with environment variables as you would with other data records
       like accounts or contacts. Previously this was the only way to use environment variables
       in canvas apps and flows.
       Is there a limit to the number of environment
       variables I can have?
       No, there is no hard limit to the number of environment variables allowed in an
       environment, but user experience will become difficult when there are too many
       environment variables to select from.
       Can environment variable display names and
       descriptions be localized?
       Yes.
       Should I use environment variables instead of
       storing configuration data in custom tables?
       Yes if your configuration data isn't relational. Environment variables should be used for
       key: value pairs and when the value likely needs to different in other environments.
       Other tools such as the Configuration migration utility are better suited for migration of
       relational configuration data stored within custom tables. Unlike other configuration
       data, environment variables are migrated within solutions and therefore much simpler
       to manage and more performant to import.
       How do I remove a value from an environment
       variable?
       You might want to remove the value of an environment variable from your solution
       before exporting the solution. Then, the existing value remains in your development
       environment, but isn't exported in the solution. This approach allows a new value to be
       provided while importing the solution into another environment.
       To remove the value, follow these steps:
         1. In the solution where the environment variable is located select the environment
          variable to display the properties.
         2. Under Current Value, select ... > Remove from this solution.
