    Catalog in Power Platform
    Building from scratch every time by recreating branding, layouts, links, complex connectors and
    flows, and more is painful and error-prone. Organizations where developers and makers build
    and share customized and reusable components and templates get more value from Power
    Platform. Successful organizations adopt a fusion teams model where pro-developers, makers,
    and admins all work together to deliver the best solutions for their users, and derive the
    highest value possible from Power Platform.
     ） Important
        The catalog needs to be set up by an admin before you can use it, including
        permissions. More information Administer the catalog.
        The catalog only works with Microsoft Dataverse environments. Environments
        without Dataverse aren't supported at this time.
        You need a Managed Environment in order to submit solutions to the catalog.
        However, you can install catalog items from any environment. More information:
        Managed Environments overview
    In any organization, there might be many components and templates distributed among many
    environments. The catalog in Power Platform enables developers and makers to:
       Crowd-source and find templates and components within their organization easily
       Find and install the latest and authoritative version of a component
       Get started with templates and components that provide immediate value
    Components include things like:
       AI prompts
       Copilot app templates
       AI plugins
       Power Platform dataflows
       Custom connectors
       Power Apps component framework controls
       Power Automate flows
       Canvas apps
       Model-driven apps
    Templates are items that represent an advanced starting point for components. Templates
    connect to their enterprise systems and resources and utilize an organization's themes.
          Terminology
          These terms are important to understand when using the catalog:
                                                                                           ﾉ Expand table
           Term           Description
           Catalog Item   The unit of interaction with the catalog is called an item.
                          - An item is what is being submitted to or installed from the catalog.
                          - Typically, an item is a Dataverse solution or package deployer package. An item can
                          contain a fully built application, a template for a Power App or flow, or a Power Platform
                          code-first component such as a custom connector or Power Apps component framework
                          (PCF) control.
           Catalog        The owning entity of the application. For example, the publisher can be the human
           Publisher      resources IT team or another line of business team.
                          - A group of people in an organization that are responsible for managing its lifecycle.
                          - Support and engineering contacts can be provided.
                          - Note that the catalog publisher is different from the solution publisher.
           Submission     The act of sharing an item involves submitting it to the catalog. This act creates a
                          submission request in the system.
           Submission     The result of a submission. This request can be approved or declined. When auto
           Request        approval is configured for the catalog, no approval is required.
           Discovery      Act of finding items within a catalog by authorized users.
           Acquisition    Act of installing the item to a target environment by a developer.
          Catalog basics
          The catalog needs to be set up by an admin before you can use it, including privileges. More
          information: Administer the catalog.
          You might choose to have multiple catalogs across environments for different regions,
          departments, or any group. Most organizations only need one catalog. A catalog admin can set
          up new catalogs in the Power Platform admin center      .
          You can submit unmanaged solutions to the catalog for other makers to install and use for
          themselves, as one of these two catalog item types:
               A template: A copy of your unmanaged solution that other makers can edit however they
               choose. Updates to the original unmanaged solution won't update templates, as
               templates are no longer "connected" to the solution it came from. If you want other
        makers to have the ability to change the catalog components as they see fit, use a
        template.
         ７ Note
         Currently, certain components aren't supported for use as templates. The supported
         components for templates are:
           Table and its sub components like forms, saved queries, relationships, table maps.
           Environment variables.
           Canvas apps.
           Modern workflows.
           AiModel and its subcomponents like AiConfig.
           Web resources.
           Power Apps component framework components. This includes modern solution
           aware components created using the Power Apps component framework. For
           example custom API, AiPlugin, and AIPlugin operation.
        A managed item: Managed items can be updated with more versions as the original
        solution is updated, but are generally restricted from editing. If you want makers to use
        your solution as is and you also want to keep copies updated with your changes in the
        future, use a managed item. Managed items are useful for a variety of scenarios for
        makers:
         Use the assets of the managed item as is and make no changes.
         Build custom functionality on top of the assets in the managed item without changing
         the original components.
         Use the assets to assist with building your own solutions. For example, PCF
         components, custom connectors, and so on.
     Admins can administer catalogs, manage access and security, approve catalog items, and more
     in the Catalog Manager, which is the dedicated workspace for admins of the catalog. The
     catalog itself is designed for makers of any level of experience to publish, discover, and acquire
     useful catalog items for themselves.
     Discovery
     The catalog area is available in Power Apps and Power Automate. On the catalog page are tiles
     representing all catalog items available to your organization. This includes items published by
     your organization, approved partners who have access to your environments, as well as many
     published by Microsoft, such as AI prompts, Copilot app templates, dataflow templates,
     enterprise templates, PCF controls, plug-ins, and more.
                                                     
     On the page itself are the following controls:
        Search box (searches the titles of available catalog items)
        Filters (filters for publisher, type, category, and more)
        Catalog selector (some organizations might choose to create multiple catalogs for
        regions or departments). Users can have access to one or more catalogs.
     The list of Microsoft published catalog items that will be available in your catalog out of the
     box are:
        AI Prompts
        Copilot app templates
        Enterprise templates
        Power Platform dataflows
        PCF controls
        Plug-ins
        Retail cloud templates
        Copilot agents
     My Activity
     Linked in the banner of the catalog page is the My Activity page. This shows useful info on
     items you have submitted and acquired, including approval status.
                                            
    Filters on top of the page allow you to look at different date ranges, types of catalog items,
    and across different catalogs (if you have multiple catalogs set up in your tenant).
       Metrics on this page:
        Total items submitted: Sum of all items you submitted.
        Items approved: Sum of all items you submitted that were approved by your admin.
        Items awaiting approval: Sum of all items you submitted that your admin has not
        responded to yet.
        Items acquired: Sum of all items you acquired from the catalog.
       Catalog items acquired table:
        Item ID: Unique identifier for the acquired item.
        Item name: Display name for the acquired item.
        Deployment type: Whether item is a template or managed.
        Date acquired: Date item was last acquired.
        Status: Current status of the acquired item, such as completed or failed.
        Message: Status message, can explain why an item failed.
       Catalog items submitted table:
        Item ID: Unique identifier for the submitted item.
        Item name: Display name for the submitted item.
        Deployment type: Whether item is a template or managed.
        Date submitted: Date item was last submitted.
                Status: Current status of the submitted item, such as approved, rejected, or pending
                approval.
                Reject reason: Why a submitted item was rejected by an admin.
        Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
        The following are frequently asked questions related to catalog in Power Platform.
        Where do I provide feedback on catalog?
        Ask questions and submit feedback at: github.com/microsoft/PowerPlatform-
        Catalog/discussions
        What are the items in the catalog?
        The catalog items are actually packages. A package contains one or more solutions and some
        metadata. The Power Apps    experiences can submit individual solutions. The Power Platform
        CLI experience can be used to create a package containing multiple solutions.
        What are solution templates? What does it mean to install an
        unmanaged solution?
        The use of a solution as a solution template is a new scenario we're making available with the
        catalog. When a maker acquires a solution template, they'll get a new unmanaged copy of that
        solution. Multiple copies of that unmanaged solution can exist in the same environment and
        each has a unique identifier.
        Catalog item install looks a lot like solution import. Are they
        the same thing?
        A catalog item is a package that contains one or more solutions. Installation of a package
        containing a single solution with no other package configuration looks similar to a solution
        import.
        Will the catalog support PCF components within solutions?
        What about other solution component types?
        Yes, distribution of PCF controls is made easier by using a catalog. Any solution component can
        be contained in a solution in the catalog.
      Can the templates have multiple owners so people know who
      to reach out to for more information?
      Yes, ownership information is part of the metadata for a catalog item. The ownership can be a
      group with multiple people in it.
      Is there a way to add documentation such as a user guide
      when submitting a template?
      Yes, documentation links are part of the metadata for a catalog item.
      Can catalogs be shared to security groups?
      Yes, catalog permissions can be targeted at specific security groups.
      Next steps
      Learn how to administer the catalog.
       Administer the catalog
      Learn how to view, submit, and install catalog items.
       Submit and install catalog items
      Ask questions or contact the project team on GitHub.
       github.com/microsoft/PowerPlatform-Catalog/discussions
       Last updated on 02/04/2026
          View, submit, and install catalog items
          Article • 11/14/2024
          In any organization, there might be many components and templates distributed among
          many environments. The catalog in Power Platform enables developers and makers to:
              Crowd-source and find templates and components within their organization easily
              Find and install the latest and authoritative version of a component
              Get started with templates and components that provide immediate value
           ） Important
           You need a Managed Environment in order to submit items to the catalog. You can
           however install catalog items from any environment. More information: Managed
           Environments overview
          Before reading this article, you should:
              Learn about the catalog
              Learn how administrators setup and configure the catalog
           ７ Note
           Developers can also use the Power Platform CLI, Dataverse SDK for .NET, and
           Dataverse Web API to perform the operations described here. Catalog in Power
           Platform for developers
          Access controls
          The catalog has a separate set of access controls from Power Platform. This means
          makers in a given environment don't automatically get permissions to publish and
          acquire items from the catalog. There are four access roles:
                                                                ﾉ
                                                                  Expand table
           Role       Enables user to:
           Catalog    Submit items to the catalog
           Submitter
              Role           Enables user to:
              Catalog        Discover and install items from the catalog
              Consumer
              Catalog        Approve submissions to the catalog.
              Approver       Catalog approvers can be users from your central IT department or line of
                             business that your organization wants to empower to participate in the approvals
                             process.
              Catalog        Administer the catalog.
              Admin
             Any environment that has a catalog sees these roles inside of Power Platform admin
             center, and can be assigned to groups or individuals just like any other security roles.
             Power Platform admins and system customizers already have full access to the catalog.
             However, don't assign these roles for generally managing catalog access, and instead
             use one of the roles in the previous table.
             Submission
             Unmanaged solutions in your environment can be published to the catalog. In your
             normal course of creating solutions, you might decide that what you're building would
             be useful as a reusable artifact for yourself or others in your organization.
             Navigate to your solutions page, and any unmanaged solution has a new option for
             Publish to Catalog in the three vertical dots next to the solution display name. This
             option is disabled for anyone without the Catalog Submitter role.
                                           
       ７ Note
       This option is not enabled for managed solutions. You can't submit managed
       solutions into the catalog.
      You can't submit an app, flow, or other component directly into the catalog. You must
      first ensure it exists in an unmanaged solution. You can add it to an unmanaged solution
      by selecting New solution on top of the Solutions area or by selecting an existing one
      from the list, and then selecting Add existing in the top menu in the solution itself, and
      adding your desired component (such as an app or a flow).
                                           
       ７ Note
       Any maker with the Catalog Submitter role in a given environment will be able to
       publish. However, after a solution is published, a maker needs to be a part of the
       publishing group to re-publish that same solution again. You see this error if you
       don't have access, which you can request from your admin.
                                           
      When you select Publish to Catalog, there's a wizard with four steps:
      Step 1: Add your solution
       1. Select a catalog: If you have multiple catalogs set up, you can select which catalog
        you would like to publish this item to.
           2. Select managed item or template for your submission.
                 Managed items can't be edited by other makers, your environment shares a
                 single copy, and that copy can be versioned with updates over time. Makers
                 can then update their solutions with your updates.
                 A template is a standalone copy that can be edited, makers can have as many
                 copies as they want, and won't automatically update solutions in
                 environments when new updates are published.
           3. Select a primary component: A solution might have many components in it. You
             might want makers to open a specific component for editing after they install it,
             such as opening Canvas Studio for your canvas app. Set the primary component to
             whichever you think is the "focus" of the solution, otherwise, set Unspecified, and
             installers go the solution itself.
         Resubmitting items
         If you're resubmitting an item, you get an alert message notifying you about the
         resubmission. You're prompted with a version field. The last digit of the version number
         is automatically incremented for you. You can modify the version number if you like, but
         don't set the version number to a lower number from this interface. Updating the
         version number in the catalog submission updates the version number in the original
         solution as well.
         Keep these points in mind when resubmitting items:
             Resubmitting a template replaces the previous item in the catalog, and doesn't
             affect any solutions already using the previous catalog item. Makers who now
             install your resubmission get your newest version.
             Resubmitting managed items will update the catalog item with your most recent
             version, and the next time makers see your catalog item in an environment where
             that catalog item was already installed, they'll see an Update button, which installs
             the most recent changes to the managed item into that environment, and then all
             solutions using that managed item will be updated as well.
             You can't resubmit a managed item as a template, and vice versa.
         Step 2: Catalog info
         Enter the following information:
                                                            ﾉ
                                                              Expand table
               Field           Instructions
               Title           Rename the item if needed before it gets submitted to catalog. The default is
                               the solution name. You can't edit title when submitted a managed item.
               Description     Provide details on this catalog item. Makers read your description in the catalog
                               gallery to find out more about it.
               Business        By default, your admin must approve all catalog submissions before they're
               justification   added to the catalog. This field provides a justification for your submission to
                               your admin.
               Works with      A flow that you're building might be intended to work with canvas apps and
                               model apps, for example. Indicate here what your catalog item is intended to
                               work with.
               Business        Select up to five business categories that describe your catalog item. Makers use
               categories      these categories to search for catalog items that are of interest to them.
               Publisher       Select an existing publisher in this environment, or create a new publisher, to
                               connect to this catalog submission. A maker can't resubmit a catalog item unless
                               they're part of the publishing group that submitted the item the first time.
               Author          This defaults to the current user, but you can change it if needed
             Step 3: Solution info
             Enter the following information:
                                                                                          ﾉ
                                                                                              Expand table
               Field            Instructions
               Solution icon    Attach an icon to your solution (216 x 216 pixel) to help identify it in the catalog
                                gallery
               template         Attach some screenshots or other visuals that can help makers understand more
               images           details about this catalog item
               Help link        Add the URL for any help documentation
               Privacy policy   Add the URL for any privacy policy documentation
               link
               Legal terms      Add the URL for any legal terms documentation
               link
             Step 4: Review and finish
       This last step provides a summary of all the info you provided. If everything looks good,
       select Submit to publish to the catalog. As previously mentioned, if your catalog
       requires an approver before submission can complete, you need to wait for approval.
       Contact your admin or approver if you need the process accelerated.
       Acquisition
       As makers browse the Discover page and find catalog items that are useful for them,
       they can acquire those artifacts and install a copy into their environment to start using
       or building with. Selecting Get on any template or managed item opens a details popup
       that contains information like description, links, included components, business
       categories, expandable screenshots, and more.
                            
       If the details meet what the maker is looking for, they can select Get on the details
       popup to start the acquisition wizard.
        ７ Note
        If the catalog item is a managed item, and has already been installed in the
        environment, you can't install the managed item again, as the environment shares
        that managed item. If the managed item has already been installed in an
        environment, and an update has been published to the managed item, you see an
        Update button instead of Get, which updates the shared managed solution in the
        environment. If the managed item was already updated, and no new updates have
        been published, the Update button is disabled until a new update is published.
       The acquisition wizard has four steps:
       Step 1: Check connections
        This step checks the connections for the solution to make sure they're working for you
        in your environment. If there are any connection issues, you see a red status notification,
        and can resolve by selecting the ellipsis (…) next to the problematic connection to
        update it.
        Step 2: Environment variables
        The publishing maker might decide some environment variables need to be specified
        before you can acquire the solution. Typically, these variables are set to some default
        value. If unsure of what to fill out, check with the author of the catalog item or in the
        details of the catalog listing, available on the catalog details. More information: Step 2:
        Catalog info
        Step 3: Configuration
        The publishing maker determines this step, if they want you to provide any additional
        information for using the solution. This might include things like, "What days of the week
        do you run a report?". If no additional information needed, this step is blank.
        Step 4: Summary
        When you reach the final step, the summary screen, you're now waiting for the catalog
        item to install into your environment. Depending on the complexity, this might take
        from less than a minute to several minutes. When complete, you're given several
        options in the dropdown, depending on what's included in the catalog item, and if the
        author set a primary component. The following is an example where a canvas app is the
        primary component of the catalog item:
                                           
      In this example, you can:
        Edit App: Opens the app in Canvas Studio
        Go to App: Takes you to the app screen, if you aren't ready to edit yet
        Go to Solutions: Opens the solution file
      Depending on what is contained in the catalog item package, different options appear.
      After the catalog item is installed, you can find the catalog item:
        In the Unmanaged solutions list in the solutions page if the catalog item was a
        template
        In the Managed solutions list in the solutions page if the catalog item was a
        managed item
      As previously mentioned, templates can be acquired as many times as you like, each as
      its own copy. The catalog appends a suffix to the unmanaged solution display name to
      differentiate the different copies. Managed items can be acquired only once into the
              managed solutions list, and all makers in the environment share the same managed
              solution. This means you can't acquire a managed item back into the same environment
              it was published from and the Update button is disabled.
              See also
              Catalog in Power Platform)
              Administer the catalog
              Catalog in Power Platform for developers
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Self-service data prep with dataflows
       Article • 02/15/2022
       As the volume of data continues to grow, so does the challenge of shaping that data
       into well-structured, actionable information. You want data that’s ready for apps, AI
       workloads, or analytics so that you can quickly turn volumes of data into actionable
       insights. With self-service data prep in the Power Apps portal, you can transform and
       load data to Microsoft Dataverse or your organization’s Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
       account with just a few clicks.
       Dataflows were introduced to help organizations unify data from disparate sources and
       prepare it for consumption. You can easily create dataflows using familiar, self-service
       tools to ingest, transform, integrate, and enrich big data. When creating a dataflow, you
       will define data source connections, ETL (extract, transform, load) logic, and destination
       to load the resulting data to. Once created, you can configure a dataflow's refresh
       schedule to indicate how frequently it should run. In addition, the new model-driven
       calculation engine makes the process of data preparation more manageable, more
       deterministic, and less cumbersome for dataflow customers. With dataflows, tasks that
       once required a data IT organization to create and oversee (and many hours or days to
       complete) can now be handled with a few clicks by individuals who aren’t even data
       scientists, such as app creators, business analysts and report creators.
       Dataflows store data in tables. An table is a set of rows used to store data, similar to
       how a table stores data within a database. Customers can define custom table schema
       or leverage the Common Data Model’s standard tables. The Common Data Model is a
       shared data language for business and analytical applications to use. The Common Data
       Model metadata system enables consistency of data and its meaning across applications
       and business processes such as Power Apps, Power BI, some Dynamics 365 apps (model-
       driven apps), and Azure, which store data in conformance with the Common Data
       Model. A dataflow’s resulting tables can then be stored in either of the following:
         Dataverse. Lets you securely store and manage data that's used by business
         applications built using Power Apps and Power Automate.
         Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2. Lets you collaborate with people in your
         organization using Power BI, Azure Data, and AI services or custom-built line-of-
         business applications that read data from the lake. Dataflows that load data to an
         Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account store data in Common Data Model folders.
         Common Data Model folders contain schematized data and metadata in a
         standardized format to facilitate data exchange and to enable full interoperability
         across services that produce or consume data stored in an organization’s Azure
         Data Lake Storage account as the shared storage layer.
       You can use dataflows to ingest data from a large and growing set of supported on-
       premises and cloud-based data sources including Excel, Azure SQL Database,
       SharePoint, Azure Data Explorer, Salesforce, Oracle database, and more.
       After selecting the data source, you can use the Power Query low-code/no-code
       experience to transform the data and map it to standard tables in the Common Data
       Model or create custom tables. Advanced users can directly edit a dataflow’s M-
       language to fully customize dataflows, similar to the Power Query experience that
       millions of Power BI Desktop and Excel users already know.
       Once you’ve created and saved a dataflow, you will need to run it in the cloud. You can
       choose to trigger a dataflow to run manually or schedule the frequency for the Power
       Platform Dataflow service to run it for you. When a dataflow completes a run, its data is
       available to use. To get dataflow data loaded into Dataverse, the Common Data Service
       connector can be used in Power Apps, Power Automate, Excel, and all other applications
       that support the Dataverse connector. To get from dataflows stored in your
       organization’s Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account, you can used the Power Platform
       Dataflow connector in Power BI Desktop or access the files directly in the lake.
       How to use dataflows
       The previous section provided background on dataflows technology. In this section, you
       get a tour of how dataflows can be used in an organization.
        ７ Note
        You must have a paid Power Apps plan to use dataflows, but you are not charged
        separately for using dataflows.
       Load data to Dataverse
       Dataflows can be used to populate tables in the Common Data Service that are then
       used in Power Apps applications. With a few clicks, you can integrate data from online
       and on-premises data sources.
       Extend the Common Data Model for your business needs
       For organizations that want to extend and build upon the Common Data Model,
       dataflows enable business intelligence professionals to customize the standard tables or
       create new ones. This self-service approach to customizing the data model can then be
       used with dataflows to build Power BI dashboards that are tailored to an organization.
       Extend your capabilities with Azure Data and AI services
       Power Platform dataflows can be configured to store dataflow data in your
       organization’s Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account. When an environment is
       connected to your organization's data lake, data scientists and developers can leverage
       powerful Azure products such as Azure Machine Learning, Azure Databricks, Azure Data
       Factory, and more.
       For more information about Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 and dataflows integration,
       including how to create dataflows that reside in your organization's Azure Data Lake,
       see Connect Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 for dataflow storage.
       Summary of self-service data prep for big data
       in Power Apps
       There are multiple scenarios and examples where dataflows can enable you to get better
       control—and faster insights—from your business data. Other people in your
       organization can leverage dataflows either via Dataverse, the Power Platform Dataflow
       connector in Power BI, or via direct access to Dataflow’s Common Data Service folder in
       your organization’s Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account. Using a standard data
       model (schema) defined by the Common Data Model, business applications can depend
       on a table’s schema, and be abstracted from how the data was created or from which
       data source. When a dataflow completes a scheduled run, the data is ready for modeling
       and creation of apps, flows, or BI insights in a very short period... in what used to take
       months, or longer, to create.
       The standardized format of the Common Data Model allows people in your organization
       to create apps that generate quick, easy, and automatic visuals and reports. Those
       include, but aren’t limited to:
          Mapping your data from various sources to standard tables in the Common Data
          Model to unify data and leverage the known schema to drive out-of-the-box
          applications.
          Creating your own custom tables to unify data across your organization.
          Creating Power BI reports and dashboards that leverage dataflow data.
          Creating integration with Azure Data and AI services via your organization’s Azure
          Data Lake Storage Gen2 account.
       Next steps
       This article provided an overview of self-service data prep in the Power Apps portal, and
       the ways you can use it. The following topics go into more detail about common usage
       scenarios for dataflows:
          Creating and using dataflows in Power Apps
          Add data to a table in Dataverse
          Connect Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 for dataflow storage
          Using an on-premises data gateway in Power Platform dataflows
       For more information about Power Query and scheduled refresh, you can read these
       articles:
          Query overview in Power BI Desktop
          Configuring scheduled refresh
       For more information about the Common Data Model, you can read its overview article:
          Common Data Model - overview
     Create and use dataflows in Power Apps
     With advanced data preparation available in Power Apps, you can create a collection of data
     called a dataflow, which you can then use to connect with business data from various sources,
     clean the data, transform it, and then load it to Microsoft Dataverse or your organization’s
     Azure Data Lake Gen2 storage account.
     A dataflow is a collection of tables that are created and managed in environments in the Power
     Apps service. You can add and edit tables in your dataflow, as well as manage data refresh
     schedules, directly from the environment in which your dataflow was created.
     Once you create a dataflow in the Power Apps portal, you can get data from it using the
     Dataverse connector or Power BI Desktop Dataflow connector, depending on which destination
     you chose when creating the dataflow.
     There are three primary steps to using a dataflow:
       1. Author the dataflow in the Power Apps portal. You select the destination to load the
        output data to, the source to get the data from, and the Power Query steps to transform
        the data using Microsoft tools that are designed to make doing so straightforward.
       2. Schedule dataflow runs. This is the frequency in which the Power Platform Dataflow
        should refresh the data that your dataflow will load and transform.
       3. Use the data you loaded to the destination storage. You can build apps, flows, Power BI
        reports, and dashboards or connect directly to the dataflow’s Common Data Model folder
        in your organization’s lake using Azure data services like Azure Data Factory, Azure
        Databricks, or any other service that supports the Common Data Model folder standard.
     The following sections look at each of these steps so you can become familiar with the tools
     provided to complete each step.
     Create a dataflow
     Dataflows are created in one environment. Therefore, you'll only be able to see and manage
     them from that environment. In addition, individuals who want to get data from your dataflow
     must have access to the environment in which you created it.
      ） Important
         Creating dataflows is currently not available with Power Apps Developer Plan
         licenses.
        The Firefox web browser currently isn't supported for the "Download refresh history
        file" action in Power Apps dataflows. More information: You receive the error
        message "There was a problem refreshing the dataflow"
      1. Sign in to Power Apps, and verify which environment you're in, find the environment
       switcher near the right side of the command bar.
      2. On the left navigation pane, select Dataflows. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
       select …More and then select the item you want.
      3. Select New dataflow. On the New Dataflow page, enter a Name for the dataflow. By
       default, dataflows store tables in Dataverse. Select Analytical entities only if you want
       tables to be stored in your organization's Azure Data Lake storage account. Select Create.
        ） Important
        There's only one owner of any dataflow—the person who created it. Only the owner
        can edit the dataflow. Authorization and access to data created by the dataflow
        depend on the destination you loaded data to. Data loaded into Dataverse will be
        available via the Dataverse Connector and requires the person accessing the data to
        be authorized to Dataverse. Data loaded into your organization’s Azure Data Lake
        Gen2 storage account is accessible via the Power Platform Dataflow connector and
        access to it requires membership within the environment it was created in.
      4. On the Choose data source page, select the data source where the tables are stored. The
       selection of data sources displayed allows you to create dataflow tables.
                                            
      5. After you select a data source, you’re prompted to provide the connection settings,
       including the account to use when connecting to the data source. Select Next.
       6. Once connected, you select the data to use for your table. When you choose data and a
        source, the Power Platform Dataflow service will subsequently reconnect to the data
        source in order to keep the data in your dataflow refreshed, at the frequency you select
        later in the setup process.
     Now that you've selected the data to use in the table, you can use the dataflow editor to shape
     or transform that data into the format necessary for use in your dataflow.
     Use the dataflow editor to shape or transform data
     You can shape your data selection into a form that works best for your table using a Power
     Query editing experience, similar to the Power Query Editor in Power BI Desktop. To learn more
     about Power Query, see Query overview in Power BI Desktop.
     If you want to see the code that Query Editor is creating with each step, or if you want to create
     your own shaping code, you can use the advanced editor.
     Dataflows and the Common Data Model
     Dataflows tables include new tools to easily map your business data to the Common Data
     Model, enrich it with Microsoft and non-Microsoft data, and gain simplified access to machine
     learning. These new capabilities can be leveraged to provide intelligent and actionable insights
     into your business data. Once you’ve completed any transformations in the edit queries step
     described below, you can map columns from your data source tables to standard table
     columns as defined by the Common Data Model. Standard tables have a known schema
     defined by the Common Data Model.
     For more information about this approach, and about the Common Data Model, see The
     Common Data Model.
     To leverage the Common Data Model with your dataflow, select the Map to Standard
     transformation in the Edit Queries dialog. In the Map tables screen that appears, select the
     standard table that you want to map.
     When you map a source column to a standard column, the following occurs:
       1. The source column takes on the standard column name (the column is renamed if the
        names are different).
       2. The source column gets the standard column data type.
     To keep the Common Data Model standard table, all standard columns that aren't mapped get
     Null values.
     All source columns that aren't mapped remain as is to ensure that the result of the mapping is
     a standard table with custom columns.
     Once you’ve completed your selections and your table and its data settings are complete,
     you’re ready for the next step, which is selecting the refresh frequency of your dataflow.
     Set the refresh frequency
     Once your tables have been defined, you should schedule the refresh frequency for each of
     your connected data sources.
     Dataflows use a data refresh process to keep data up to date. In the Power Platform Dataflow
     authoring tool, you can choose to refresh your dataflow manually or automatically on a
     scheduled interval of your choice.
     Schedule a refresh automatically
       1. Select Refresh automatically.
       2. Enter the dataflow frequency:
           Frequency-based refresh. Set how often in 30-minute increments, start date, and
           time in UTC.
           Refresh on specific days and times. Choose time zone, frequency (daily or weekly)
           and time of day in 30-minute increments.
       3. Select Publish.
     Some organizations might want to use their own storage for creation and management of
     dataflows. You can integrate dataflows with Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 if you follow the
     requirements to set up the storage account properly. More information: Connect Azure Data
     Lake Storage Gen2 for dataflow storage
     Troubleshooting data connections
     There might be occasions when connecting to data sources for dataflows runs into issues. This
     section provides troubleshooting tips when issues occur.
        Salesforce connector. Using a trial account for Salesforce with dataflows results in a
        connection failure with no information provided. To resolve this, use a production
        Salesforce account or a developer account for testing.
        SharePoint connector. Make sure you supply the root address of the SharePoint site,
        without any subfolders or documents. For example, use a link similar to
        https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/ObjectModel.
          JSON File connector. Currently you can connect to a JSON file using basic authentication
          only. For example, a URL similar to https://XXXXX.blob.core.windows.net/path/file.json?
          sv=2019-01-01&si=something&sr=c&sig=123456abcdefg is currently not supported.
          Azure Synapse Analytics. Dataflows don't currently support Microsoft Entra
          authentication for Azure Synapse Analytics. Use basic authentication for this scenario.
        ７ Note
        If you use data loss prevention (DLP) policies to block the HTTP with Microsoft Entra
        (preauthorized) connector then SharePoint and OData connectors will fail. The HTTP with
        Microsoft Entra (preauthorized) connector needs to be allowed in DLP policies for
        SharePoint and OData connectors to work.
      Troubleshoot the error: Connection to Dataverse failed. Please
      check the link below on how to fix this issue
      Users might receive an error message if the connection they're using for export requires a fix.
      In this case, the user receives an error message that states Connection to Dataverse failed.
      Please check the link below on how to fix this issue.
      To resolve this issue:
        1. In Power Apps (make.powerapps.com), select Connections from the left navigation pane.
          If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
        2. Locate the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connection.
        3. Select the Fix connection link in the Status column, and follow the instructions on your
          screen.
      After the fix completes, retry the export.
      You receive the error message "There was a problem
      refreshing the dataflow"
      This error occurs when you try to refresh the dataflow while using the Firefox web browser. To
      work around this issue use a different web browser, such as Microsoft Edge or Google Chrome.
      Next steps
      The following articles are useful for further information and scenarios when using dataflows:
         Add data to a table in Dataverse
         Using an on-premises data gateway in Power Platform dataflows
         Connect Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 for dataflow storage
         Use dataflows in solutions
      For more information about the Common Data Model:
         Common Data Model - overview
         Learn more about the Common Data Model schema and tables on GitHub
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
       Get insights from your data
       Article • 05/31/2024
       Microsoft Dataverse is the intelligent data platform that powers Dynamics 365 apps and
       the Power Platform. All Dynamics 365 data is hosted in Dataverse. The data included
       data from finance and operations apps and customer engagement apps like Dynamics
       365 Sales and Dynamics 365 Customer Service. Dynamics 365 applications can be
       extended with Power Platform tools like Power Apps, Power Automate, and Power Pages
       for low-code and pro-code extensions. Data from Power Platform apps is also hosted in
       Dataverse.
       When you understand the data and its intent, Dataverse provides turnkey capabilities in
       a consistent manner for all your data. Dataverse isn't just a database or storage, it
       encompasses everything needed to build integrated applications, processes, and in turn
       provides insights from the data it hosts. Dataverse also provides a comprehensive
       governance framework for your data including granular role based security and audit
       and compliance. Because it's a low-code data platform, developers can spend more time
       focusing on business needs through the configuration of the system and less time
       building infrastructure.
       There are several approaches to getting insights from your data hosted by Dataverse:
         Quick view is a data exploration feature built into Power Apps. When you build a
         low-code app, either by extending Dynamics 365 or with your own data, quick view
         is enabled by default. There's no need to create reports to inquire and explore
         data. You can save these reports as required and later extend them in Power BI
         Desktop - the authoring tool for Power BI.
         Power BI with Dataverse data. As a low-code maker or a business analyst, you can
         use Power BI with Dataverse data to create rich reports and embed these reports
         within pages and forms in Power Apps.
         Link to Fabric feature provides a no-copy, no-ETL, fully managed software as a
         service (SaaS) integration. The link to Microsoft Fabric feature enables data
         engineers and business analysts to use all the tools of Microsoft Fabric to combine
         Dataverse data with their own data.
         Azure Synapse Link enables continuous export of data to your own Azure data lake
         and enables IT admins and data integration specialists to create data pipelines.
       Data export service, bring your own device (BYOD), and Export to Data Lake were
       features introduced in Dynamics 365 apps to export data for analytics and data
              integration scenarios. These services enabled IT admins and specialists to export data
              into external databases or data lakes and build data integration pipelines. While we have
              improved these services over the years with updates, as part of unification of Dynamics
              365 with the Power Platform, we rearchitected the same capabilities of these disparate
              services into simpler, unified experiences built into Power Apps (make.powerapps.com).
              When you transition to Fabric link or upgrading to Azure Synapse Link, these features
              provide you with an easy ramp to benefit from AI and Copilot investments in Dataverse
              and Fabric. Go to the transition from legacy integration services article for more
              information about how you can transition to Dataverse insights.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Use Power BI with Microsoft Dataverse
       data
       Article • 05/06/2022
       Power BI is a comprehensive collection of services and tools that you use to visualize
       your business data. The following connector, templates, and features are available that
       make it easy to visualize and analyze Microsoft Dataverse data or the Dynamics 365
       Sales and Dynamics 365 Customer Service apps data with Power BI.
         Dataverse connector: Dataverse allows you to connect directly to your data using
         Power BI Desktop to create reports and publish them to Power BI. From Power BI,
         reports can be used in dashboards, shared to other users and accessed cross
         platform on Power BI mobile apps. This connector is the most recent version and
         uses the tabular data stream (TDS) protocol. More information: Create a Power BI
         report
         Common Data Service (legacy) connector: This is the earlier version of the
         connector. Use this connector when the query results will be greater than 80 MB.
         This version also supports paging of the query results and building reports that use
         the image data type.
         Dataflow templates: Dataflows help organizations unify data from disparate
         sources and prepare it for consumption. You can easily create dataflows using
         familiar, self-service tools to ingest, transform, integrate, and enrich big data. Once
         you create a dataflow in Power Apps, you can get data from it using the Common
         Data Service connector or Power BI Desktop Dataflow connector. More
         information: Create and use dataflows in Power Apps
         Power BI template apps: Power BI template apps are integrated packages of pre-
         built Power BI dashboards and reports. Using Power BI template apps with
         Dynamics 365 Sales provides a convenient, powerful, and quick way to access and
         analyze your sales data. For more information, see these articles:
           Sales analytics
           Service analytics
         Embed Power BI reports on a form: You can use Power BI reports in Power Apps
         model-driven apps to bring rich reporting and analytics to your system forms and
         empower your users to accomplish more. More information: Embed a Power BI
         report in a model-driven system form
         Embed Power BI reports on a system dashboard: Use can add Power BI reports to
         the dashboards and include in the solution with Environment Variables for ALM.
         More information: Create or edit a Power BI embedded system dashboard
        Tabular Data Stream (TDS) endpoint: Use the TDS endpoint for Dataverse to view
        table data in Power BI Desktop. More information: View table data in Power BI
        Desktop
      See also
      Use Power BI
       Create a Power BI report using data
       from Dataverse
       Microsoft Dataverse allows you to connect directly to your data using Power BI Desktop to create
       reports and publish them to Power BI. From Power BI, reports can be used in dashboards, shared
       to other users, and accessed cross platform on Power BI mobile apps.
       Prerequisites
       To use Power BI with Dataverse, you need the following items:
            Download and install Power BI Desktop, which is a free application that runs on your local
            computer. You can download Power BI desktop here   .
            A Power Platform environment with the following privileges:
               To access data in a table, you must have read privileges to the table.
               To modify a table in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com), you must have a security role
               that includes maker privileges, such as system customizer or environment maker.
            You must have the appropriate Power BI license to build and share Power BI reports.
        To use the Dataverse connector, the Enable TDS endpoint setting must be enabled in your
        environment. More information: Manage feature settings
      ７ Note
      Most proxy servers don’t handle the Tabular Data Stream (TDS) protocol data used by the
      Dataverse connector for Power BI.
     Connect to Dataverse using a connector
      Dataverse connector
        1. Open Power BI Desktop. Select Get data from other sources.
        2. In the Get Data list, select Dataverse, and then select Connect.
        3. If you're prompted, select or enter your user credentials, and then select Connect.
        4. The list of Power Platform environments with Dataverse appears. In the list of
         environments, expand the environment you want, select the tables you want, and then
         select Load.
        5. Select from the following Data Connectivity mode options:
            Import: We recommend that you import data to Power BI wherever possible. With
            this mode, data is cached in the Power BI service and imported on a scheduled
            interval.
            DirectQuery: Connects directly to the data in Dataverse. Use this mode for real-
            time data retrieval. This mode can also more strictly enforce the Dataverse
            security model. More information: DirectQuery model guidance in Power BI
            Desktop.
        6. Select OK. You might be prompted to sign in using the same credentials you use to
         connect to Power Apps and Dataverse. Select Connect.
       ） Important
       To use the Dataverse connector, TCP ports 1433 and/or 5558 need to be open to
       connect. If only port 5558 is enabled, you must append that port number to the
       environment URL, such as yourenvironmentid.crm.dynamics.com,5558.
     Build reports using Dataverse tables
     After loading the tables by using a connector, you can begin building reports, or repeat the
     previous steps to add additional tables. For example, in the Columns pane, select the name
     column and then select the numberofemployees column. In the Visualizations pane, select Pie
     chart. These selections add a new visualization to your report canvas.
                                                           
     Special column types
     Choice columns
     Choice columns are used in tables to provide a drop-down list of items to a user to make a single
     selection in apps and flows. When using the Dataverse connector, choice columns are presented
     as two columns to show both the unique value, and the display item value.
     For example, if you had a choice column on your table called approvalstatus, you would see two
     columns in Power BI:
        approvalstatus - This column shows a unique integer value for each item in your choice.
        approvalstatus can help when you apply filters so the filters won't be impacted when you
        make future changes to the display name.
        approvalstatusname - This column shows the friendly display name of the item and is most
        commonly used when presenting the option in a table or chart.
                                                    ﾉ Expand table
           approvalstatus              approvalstatusname
          1                            Submitted
          2                            In Review
          3                            Approved
          4                            Rejected
      Performance impact and choice name columns
      When retrieving the label name for a choice column, Dataverse makes a join with the internal
      stringmap table (where localized labels are stored). This is executed for each label/name column.
      Note that, this join and doing filters against the label name column, rather than the value column,
      can significantly impact report query performance.
      Choices columns
      Choices are similar to choice columns with the difference being that users can select multiple
      items from the list. Choices aren't currently fully supported with the Dataverse connector. When
      you use the Dataverse connector with choices columns, you only receive the integer values, which
      are comma separated. The item label name columns aren't returned. For more information about
      the Dataverse data types not supported with the Dataverse connector, see Supported operations
      and data types.
      Lookups
      Lookup columns use a many-to-one (N:1) table relationship between the table you’re working
      with and the target row type defined for the lookup. Lookups are presented in Power BI Desktop
      as two columns, lookupid and lookupid-name.
      Navigating relationships
      Relationships in Dataverse require you to create a relationship within Power BI desktop between
      the two tables using a GUID column, this is a system-generated unique identifier that ensures
      relationships are created for the create rows where ambiguity or duplication might exist with
      other columns. You can read more about managing relationships in Power BI desktop here.
      While some relationships might be automatically created, you can still review and ensure the
      correct relationships are established when creating your report:
            The lookup column on the table contains the GUID of the row in the related table.
            The related table has a column in the format "[tableName]ID" that contains the GUID, for
            example Accountid or MyCustomtableid
            Using the Power BI desktop Manage Relationships feature, you would create a new
            relationship between your lookup column, and the ID column on the related table.
       Find your environment URL
          1. Open Power Apps  , select the environment you're going to connect to, select Settings in
            the top-right corner, and then select Session details.
          2. In the Power Apps session details dialog box, select Copy Details.
          3. Paste the session details somewhere such as Notepad so that you can copy only the
            Instance url. The instance URL is the unique URL for your environment. The URL is in the
            format: https://yourenvironmentid.crm.dynamics.com/. Keep this somewhere handy so you
            can use it when creating your Power BI reports.
       Troubleshooting
       Error message: Return records size can't exceed 83886080
       This error can occur with the Dataverse connector when you run or design a report with a result
       set greater than 80 MB. TDS has a result set size limit of 80 MB.
    To work around this limit, optimize the query adding filters and dropping columns so that the
    query returns less data.
    Workaround for very large number of lookups or choice columns
    If the error message occurs in Power BI when you try to connect to a table with a very large
    number of lookups or choice columns, the following manual workaround might allow you to
    connect to the table. The account, contact, and opportunity table might encounter this issue
    when they're extensively customized with additional lookups or choice columns.
    Manually connect to the table in a Power BI report:
      1. In Power BI desktop with the report loaded, select Transform Data to load Power Query.
      2. Select New Source > Blank Query.
      3. Name your query.
      4. Select Advanced Editor on the Home tab of Power BI Desktop.
      5. Replace the query text with this query text.
        let
            Source = CommonDataService.Database("<myenvironment.crmX>.dynamics.com"),
            dbo_contact = Source{[Schema="dbo",Item="contact"]}[Data],
            #"selectedcolumns" = Table.SelectColumns(dbo_contact,{"fullname", 
        "emailaddress1"})
        in
            #"selectedcolumns"
      6. Replace myenvironment.crmX in the query text with your environment domain value, such
       as contoso.crm4.
     7. Select Done.
     8. Select Choose columns to add any additional needed columns.
     9. Select Close and Apply to save model changes.
     10. When prompted, select Direct Query for the new query.
    The query can now be used in the report.
    Error message: Unable to connect (provider Named Pipes
    Provider, error: 40 – Could not open a connection to
    SQL Server)
    When this error message occurs, the connector fails to connect to the TDS endpoint. This can
    occur when the URL used with the connector includes https:// and/or the ending /.
    Remove the https:// and ending forward slash so that the URL is in the form
    orgname.crm.dynamics.com.
    Troubleshooting connection issues
    For information about troubleshooting connection issues when using the TDS endpoint, see
    Troubleshooting connection problems.
     See also
     Use composite models in Power BI Desktop
     View Dataverse for Teams table data in Power BI Desktop
      Last updated on 04/27/2026
            View table data in Power BI Desktop
            Article • 08/08/2024
            Use Power BI Desktop to view tables in Microsoft Dataverse. The table row data that you
            can access from your environment is read-only. Data access uses the Dataverse security
            model that is the same used to access table row data using a Power Apps app.
            Prerequisites
                  Enable the Tabular Data Stream (TDS) endpoint (on by default). More information:
                  Manage feature settings.
                  Power BI Desktop. Get it now
            View table data
               1. Sign into Power Apps   , and then select the appropriate environment from the
                  top-right corner.
               2. On the left navigation pane select Tables. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
                  select …More and then select the item you want.
               3. Select Analyze > Analyze in Power BI on the command bar.
                  The pbids file for your environment is downloaded to your browser’s default
                  download folder.
                    ７ Note
                    To be able to download the file, you must have read access to the analysis
                    component (msdyn_analysiscomponent) custom table privilege in Dataverse.
                    Users with the environment maker security role have full access to this
                    privilege.
               4. Open the .pbids file to access it in Power BI Desktop.
               5. The pbids file is loaded in Power BI Desktop. In the dialog box, select
                  Organizational account, select Sign in, and then in the browser window that
                  appears select or enter your credentials.
       6. In the dialog box in Power BI Desktop, select Connect.
        The environment appears in the Power BI Desktop Navigator window. Expand it to
        view the tables available to analyze. Select a table to preview its data.
       7. After you're finished selecting the tables you want to analyze, select Load to build
        a report.
      For more information about Power BI Desktop, see Get started with Power BI Desktop.
       ７ Note
       SQL options, such as a T-SQL queries aren’t supported.
                 Tip
                The Power BI modeling guidance for Power Platform article provides
                implementation guidance and best practices on how to create a Power BI data
                model that connects to Dataverse:
                      Performance and security considerations when connecting Power BI to
                      Dataverse.
                      Dataverse connector best practices.
                      Working with large datasets using Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse.
                      Considerations for DirectQuery.
              See also
              Use SQL to query data
              Dataverse SQL
              Power Query Dataverse connector
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Transition from legacy data integration
     services
     Data export service, bring your own database (BYOD), and Export to Data Lake were features
     introduced in Dynamics 365 apps to export data for analytics and data integration scenarios.
     These services enabled IT admins and specialists to export data into external databases or data
     lakes and build data integration pipelines. While we improved these services over the years
     with updates as part of unification of Dynamics 365 with the power platform, we rearchitected
     the same capabilities of these disparate services into simpler, unified experiences built into
     Power Apps (make.powerapps.com). With a transition to Microsoft Fabric link or upgrade to
     Azure Synapse Link, the rearchitected services provide you with an easy ramp to benefit from
     AI and Copilot investments in Microsoft Dataverse and Fabric.
     If you're a customer using any of the previous generation services, this article provides
     guidance on upgrading to the new experiences, benefiting from innovations, as well as
     reducing end-to-end expenses and effort.
     Based on preview customer surveys, we also compiled a high level cost and benefits estimate
     to help you with the transition. Links to more information and videos, links to join forums and
     weekly office hour sessions to engage with the product team, Microsoft specialists, and fellow
     users are also provided here. We strive to enhance these services with community participation.
     Before transition
     If you're a customer using legacy services BYOD, data export service, or Export to Data lake,
     you might have a data integration architecture similar to the one shown here. The highlighted
     box indicates the data pipelines your organization might have built to leverage the data
     exported from Dynamics 365 and Dataverse. You can use a selection of tools from Microsoft, as
     well as others, to copy and integrate Dynamics data with your own data. You can also
     transform and aggregate data by copying into multiple stores – shown in the data prep box of
     the diagram. You can use Power BI or another tool to visualize data and create actionable
     insights. You might have pipelines built to export data to an on-premises system and other
     clouds.
                                                        
     After transition
     There are two data integration patterns enabled in Power Apps:
        Azure Synapse Link enables continuous export of data similar to BYOD, Export to Data
        Lake, or data export service. This option is enabled for IT admins and data integration
        specialists.
        Link to Fabric feature provides a no-copy, no-extract, transform, and load (ETL), fully
        managed software as a service (SaaS) integration.
     These options are complementary. Here's a detailed comparison of the data integration
     services.
     If you're a finance and operations apps customer currently using BYOD or Export to Data Lake
     features, by upgrading to Azure Synapse Link or Fabric link, you can benefit from a simplified
     data integration architecture resulting in reduced operational costs:
        Easy to configure and maintain via Power Apps (make.powerapps.com). Built-in
        integration with Azure Synapse and Fabric.
        Azure Synapse Link and Fabric link are fully managed services. Each requires minimal
        ongoing management overhead.
        New services offer the same data shapes as previous services. Your existing downstream
        integration pipelines can remain as-is.
        Minimal impact to operational workloads, you don’t need to manage workloads and
        schedule data exports.
     Secure, end-to-end data integration pipelines:
        With Fabric link, your data doesn’t leave the Dataverse governance boundary while
        authorized Fabric users can securely access data that resides within Dataverse.
                 Azure Synapse Link service enables you to restrict access to your storage accounts with
                 firewalls while enabling Dataverse to export data with managed identities for Azure, a
                 security feature built into Microsoft Entra.
          If you're a Dynamics 365 customer engagement customer using data export service or classic
          Azure Synapse Link with data exports in CSV format, you can benefit from efficient reporting
          enabled with the industry standard Delta or Parquet data format:
                 Built-in Delta Lake or Parquet conversion option reduces the need to build your own
                 pipelines for analytics and operational reporting.
                 Delta Lake or Parquet format enables faster, more responsive queries & reports and
                 scales to larger datasets of any size.
                 Data in lake is compressed to 1/3 to 1/8 the original size, resulting in smaller files that
                 reduce data query and carrying costs.
                                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
            Link to Fabric                               Azure Synapse Link
            No copy, no ETL direct integration with      Export data to your own storage account and integrate with
            Fabric.                                      Azure Synapse, Fabric, and other tools.
            Data stays in Dataverse. Users get secure    Data stays in your own storage. You manage access to users.
            access in Microsoft Fabric.
            All tables chosen by default.                System administrators can choose required tables.
            Consumes additional Dataverse storage.       Consumes your own storage and other compute and
                                                         integration tools.
          Which option should I use?
          If your organization is already using Fabric or planning to transition in the coming months, we
          recommend using the Fabric link feature. You can continue to use the Azure Synapse Link
          service if your immediate focus is to upgrade from your current services.
          Simplification with Fabric link
          If you're already consuming data using Power BI, using a data warehouse, or using dataflows
          and notebooks to transform data, the link to Fabric feature provides immediate value. You can
          simplify your data integration architecture by removing the need to have your own storage
          account or Synapse services for Dataverse data. Instead of paying for Azure resources like
          storage and compute, you pay for the increase in Dataverse storage. Compute charges such as
    near real-time data updates and management overhead is also factored into Dataverse
    storage. Fabric link option is like having a near real time read-only replica of your data
    optimized for insights.
                                            
    Query this replica using T-SQL, Apache Spark, Python as well as other workloads in Fabric. You
    can also access this data using any tool that can consume T-SQL or can consume data from
    Azure Data Lake Storage.
    As a Dynamics or Power Apps customer, you get a Dataverse storage quota based on the
    number of licenses you purchased. The Fabric link feature uses this database quota. You can
    buy more storage add-ons if the data volume exceeds your quota.
    You can continue to retain Azure platform as a service (PaaS) services, like Databricks and SQL
    Database, in your own subscription. Recently announced Fabric features like data mirroring and
    shortcuts can help you further simplify your data integration.
    Examples of cost reductions achieved with the simplicity derived from Fabric integration
    feature are described here.
    Upgrading to Azure Synapse Link
    By upgrading to Azure Synapse Link and enabling Delta or Parquet conversion, you can
    eliminate Dataverse data prep pipelines in your solution. Azure Synapse Link service exports
    the same data shapes into your storage account in a more performant Delta or Parquet format.
    You can continue to use existing tools and Azure services like storage and Azure Synapse
    Analytics query with minimal disruptions to your production environments.
                                                    
     Understanding benefits and cost reductions
     Simplicity achieved with Fabric link and Azure Synapse Link yields reductions in end-to-end
     costs. Consider the following examples that are based on preview customer experiences.
     Example 1: Transition from BYOD or Export to Data Lake to
     Fabric link
     Consider the case where you transition to Fabric link from Export to Data Lake.
                                                    
     As indicated in the before and after diagrams in this article, customer retired export to data
     lake service (1) as well as staging data stores (2) with Fabric link. For operational insights, (4),
     they consumed data in OneLake directly in Power BI. Some of the insights require data merge,
     transformation, and aggregation (3). Instead of using disparate Azure services, they
     standardized on the same tools built into Fabric.
     Innovations in Dataverse and Fabric enable simplifications and cost reductions:
        Dataverse comes with a built-in OneLake store. Operational data from Dynamics 365 and
        Power Apps are replicated to built-in lake store near real-time (to avoid influence to
                operational workloads) and linked securely to Fabric via shortcuts. There's no need to
                bring Azure storage and secure data that’s exported out. Your data doesn’t leave the
                Dataverse governance boundary and authorized users in Fabric can work with data using
                all Fabric workloads.
                Export to data lake and data export service exports data in CSV format. CSV files aren't
                suitable for direct consumption due to poor query performance as well as occasional
                read/write contention issues. The before transition solution uses Azure Data Factory to
                periodically ingest and convert raw data into an Azure SQL Database or an Azure data
                warehouse. This layer isn't needed in the after transition solution since Dataverse built-in
                OneLake data is maintained in Delta or Parquet format – the same open format that is
                native to Microsoft Fabric. Delta or Parquet format, along with optimizations in Fabric
                removes the need to maintain additional data stores for caching and improving query
                performance while eliminating read/ write contention. You can create Power BI reports
                using Direct Lake over data in OneLake without any additional data stages.
                While operational insights can be performed using the data already available in OneLake,
                you might have additional data from other systems. This data might need to be
                combined, reshaped, and aggregated with Dataverse data. Fabric provides an integrated
                environment, which provides best of breed tools like dataflows, Azure Data Factory, and
                Spark. Use these tools as opposed to configuring and provisioning tools standalone,
                where you adopt the tools of your choice. Integrated billing, source control, and security
                enable simpler management and governance.
                While you can continue to use Power BI service for reporting purposes, Fabric introduces
                Direct Lake mode reporting, which leverages the in-memory indexes built into Delta or
                Parquet format therefore removing the need to use Power BI import mode reports.
          These innovations yield end-to-end cost savings in addition to the benefits discussed earlier.
          The tables here outline the line items of costs along with a comparison of before and after
          solutions. You can use this table as a guideline to estimate expected cost savings.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
           Cost savings line    Before cost - export to    After cost - Fabric link
           item                 data lake
           Set-up and           Need to use multiple       Simpler configuration experience in Power Platform.
           configuration        tools.
                                - Pay for multiple         Purchase Fabric capacity and pay for use for all services.
                                software licenses and      You only pay for what you use. In some cases, you're
                                subscriptions.             billed by the second.
                                - System configuration
                                efforts.                   No ETL pipelines needed for Dataverse data.
                                - Effort to build and
                                validate data pipelines.
                                - Continued governance,
           Cost savings line    Before cost - export to    After cost - Fabric link
           item                 data lake
                                management, and
                                monitoring.
                                - Training of users.
           Data staging (1, 2)  Cost incurred for Azure    Cost increase in Dataverse storage
                                services.
                                - Azure storage cost       For example, if you sync 500 GB of data from Dynamics
                                including cost of IO.      365, Dataverse storage could increase by around 100
                                - Synapse Analytics (SQL   GB (assuming five to eight times data compression).
                                serverless query).
                                - Azure Data Factory jobs
                                to copy data.
                                - Staging data stores,
                                such as Azure SQL
                                Database.
           Operating Costs -    - Azure storage staging    Spending shifts to Fabric where you pay for
           data prep (3)        area.                      consumption with a shared capacity.
                                - Data pipelines.
                                - Data ingestion into
                                Azure SQL or data
                                warehouse.
                                - Development of
                                maintenance data.
           Operating costs –    Synapse analytics (SQL     As your data is compressed (for example 1/3 to 1/6
           reporting (4)        query).                    original size), your reporting and query costs reduce
           - Power BI           Power BI capacity and      accordingly.
           datasets.            storage for import mode
           - Reporting.         reports.                   New features, like Direct Lake reporting, reduce
                                                           consumption of Power BI storage consumption.
             ７ Note
             These estimates are provided to enable estimating the spend after transition. While these
             estimates are based on experience from preview customers, actual costs incurred in your
             environment as well as data compression can vary depending on volume and composition
             of data.
          Example 2: Upgrade to Azure Synapse Link
          Upgrading to Azure Synapse Link is an option to consider if you're not currently using Fabric –
          or not planning to transition in the coming months.
    As indicated in the before and after diagrams here, customer retired Export to Data Lake
    service (1) as well as staging data stores (2) with Azure Synapse Link. Data stores used for data
    staging, such as intermediate Azure SQL Databases, are retired as Dataverse data is saved in
    Delta or Parquet format – a more performant and compressed data format. Downstream
    pipelines used for data merge, transformation, and aggregation, (3), as well as presentation
    tools (4), such as Power BI, remain unchanged.
                                            
    Azure Synapse Link provides an easy upgrade path for customers looking to extend their
    existing investments with minimal changes. As we discuss here, innovations in Dataverse
    enable easy transition from finance and operations apps services like Export to Data Lake and
    BYOD.
      1. Azure Synapse Link enables easy configuration of Azure storage and Synapse services
       within the Power Apps (make.powerapps.com). Several limitations of Export to Data Lake
       are removed:
       a. A uniform experience enables choosing data from all Dynamics 365 apps including
        both finance and operations and customer engagement apps. You can maintain a
        single service to export data from all Dynamics 365 and Power Apps.
       b. Table limitations present with Export to Data Lake go away. You can choose up to 1,000
        tables for each Azure Synapse Link profile within a single storage account. You can
        create multiple profiles (export pipelines) each with up to 1,000 tables.
       c. Azure Synapse Link provides built-in support for using firewall restricted storage
        accounts to export data.
       d. No need to configure Azure resources. Azure Synapse Link provisions and configures
        Azure resources on your behalf.
       e. Azure Synapse Link exports data in the same format as Export to Data Lake or BYOD
        enabling you to retain existing pipelines.
      2. Both Export to Data Lake and data export service export data in CSV format. CSV files
       aren't suited for direct consumption due to poor query performance as well as occasional
       read/write contention issues. Before transition uses Azure Data Factory to periodically
       ingest and convert raw data into a SQL Azure Database or an Azure data warehouse. This
       layer isn't needed in the 'after transition since Azure Synapse Link exports data in Delta or
                Parquet, which removes the need to maintain additional data stores for caching and
                improving query performance while eliminating read/write contention.
             3. Continue to use your existing data pipelines for combining, reshaping, and aggregating
                additional data from other systems.
             4. Continue to use Power BI service for reporting purposes. Fabric introduces Direct Lake
                mode reporting that leverages the in-memory indexes built into Delta or Parquet format,
                which removes the need to use Power BI import mode reports.
          These innovations yield end-to-end cost savings in addition to the benefits discussed earlier.
          The tables here outline the line items of costs along with a comparison of before and after
          solutions. Use the table as a guideline to estimate expected cost savings.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
           Cost savings line     Before cost - Export to Data    After cost - Azure Synapse Link
           item                  Lake
           Set-up and            Must use multiple tools.        Simpler configuration experience in Power
           configuration         - Pay for multiple software     Platform.
                                 licenses and subscriptions.     No ETL pipelines needed for Dataverse data.
                                 - System configuration efforts.
                                 - Effort to build and validate
                                 data pipelines.
                                 - Continued governance,
                                 management, and monitoring.
                                 - Training of users.
           Data staging (1, 2)   Cost incurred for Azure         Azure Synapse Link requires you to provide a
                                 services.                       Spark pool to convert data to Parquet format.
                                 - Azure storage cost including
                                 cost of IO.                     Depending on the frequency of data sync, as well
                                 - Synapse Analytics (SQL        as the volume of data changes, Spark pool costs
                                 serverless query).              can vary.
                                 - Azure Data Factory jobs to
                                 copy data.                      Small to medium data changes (per month):
                                 - Staging data stores, such as  - $600 to $2,000 for hourly refresh.
                                 Azure SQL Database.             - $1,200 to $4,100 for 15-minute refresh.
                                                                 Medium to large data changes (per month):
                                                                 - $1,200 to $2,500 for hourly refresh.
                                                                 - $2,500 to $8,300 for 15-minute refresh.
           Operating costs -     - Azure storage staging area.   Same costs as indicated above, however, you
           data prep (3)         - Data pipelines.               might not need to aggregate Dataverse data due
                                 - Data ingestion into Azure     to Parquet conversion.
                                 SQL Database or data
           Cost savings line     Before cost - Export to Data    After cost - Azure Synapse Link
           item                  Lake
                                 warehouse.
                                 - Development and
                                 maintenance data.
           Operating costs -     Synapse Analytics (SQL query).  As your data is compressed, for example 1/3 to
           reporting (4):        Power BI capacity.              1/6 original size, your reporting and query costs
           - Power BI datasets.                                  reduce accordingly.
           - Reporting.
             ） Important
             These estimates are provided to enable estimating the spend after transition. While these
             estimates are based on experience from preview customers, actual costs incurred in your
             environment as well as data compression can vary depending on volume and composition
             of data.
          Example 3: Incrementally ingesting data to a data warehouse
          If you're currently consuming incremental data from Export to Data Lake feature to populate a
          downstream data pipeline, you can continue to use the same pipeline. As shown here, Azure
          Synapse Link service can export incremental data changes in the same format as changes feed
          into Export to Data Lake.
                                                                                                             
          Azure Synapse Link service provides several enhancements over Export to Data Lake for
          incremental data changes:
                Initial data load is included within change folders. This makes it easy for the same pipeline
                to consume both the initial load as well as incremental updates.
                Change data isn't deleted in case of a reinitialization of a table.
                System creates a time-stamped folder structure and metadata that helps you read the
                changes in chronological order. Change data once written, is never updated. This
        approach is better suited to process changes using big data ingestion tools like Azure
        Data Factory.
        You can configure how often you want the change feeds updated in folders with Azure
        Synapse Link, as low as five minutes.
     When you transition to Fabric or Azure Synapse Link, the change in cost is minimal for
     incremental data changes.
     Understanding benefits – more real-time reporting
     Fabric not only simplifies your data integration architecture, but also reduces the need to copy
     or replicate data. The underlying data format in Fabric, the industry standard Delta or Parquet
     format, can be directly consumed by Power BI, dataflows, notebooks, and other workloads
     eliminating the need for caching and staging areas.
     If you upgrade to Azure Synapse Link and continue to export data, your data is saved in Delta
     or Parquet format, which can reduce the steps in your own data pipelines for operational
     reporting.
     Consider the time taken to refresh an operational report, such as inventory analysis or month-
     end financial analysis. These reports might require data aggregation of millions of rows of data
     from multiple tables in Dynamics 365 Finance. Using Export to Data Lake service, CSV data is
     exported within 10 minutes. This data might need to be imported into a Power BI report to
     provide better response times. Power BI refresh can be performed up to 24 times a day (every
     30 minutes). Depending on how the report is designed, refresh can take several minutes to
     complete refresh. Using this approach, users can see data within 60 minutes of an update.
     These timelines are indicative. Actual sync time depends on factors such as the initial data load
     size, data churn rate, and the volume of change.
     Operational reports that source data using Fabric link can leverage Direct Lake mode or
     DirectQuery mode in Fabric, which leverages the in-memory index built into Delta or Parquet
        files. In these modes, you don’t need to schedule refresh of Power BI reports as the report
        always shows latest Dataverse data updated in Fabric.
        The Fabric link service updates data in Dataverse OneLake within the hour as of this point in
        time. Dataverse triggers data update jobs every 15 minutes and depending on the volume of
        data changes, you might see updated Parquet files within 15 to 45 minutes. These timelines are
        indicative. Actual sync time depends on several factors including the initial data load size, data
        churn rate, and the volume of changes. In situations with high transaction volumes, such as
        processes in Dynamics 365 finance and operations apps generating millions of records in a
        short time, or processes like the master planning feature included with Dynamics 365 Supply
        Chain Management that delete and re-create large volumes of records, Synapse Link must
        synchronize all changes including deletes. In these high-volume scenarios, data availability
        within the indicated timeframes can't be guaranteed.
        If you're consuming incremental data feeds from Dynamics 365 with Export to Data Lake
        service for near-real time data integration scenarios (example 3). Upgrade to Azure Synapse
        Link enables you to run the same data pipelines.
        Limitations and changes to behavior
        You might find a few changes in table formats introduced that help avoid conflicts. More
        information: Known limitations.
        Also verify that you have the latest updates, which address some of the known issues. To learn
        more about the upcoming roadmap and stay in touch with the product team, join the preview
        Viva Engage group   .
        Frequently asked questions
      Questions? you can refer to the FAQ document published here. You can also join weekly office
      hrs, stay in touch with the product team and the customer forum by joining Viva Engage
      group .
      See also
      What is Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse?
      Link your Dataverse environment to Microsoft Fabric and unlock deep insights
      Last updated on 03/30/2026
     Frequently asked questions when
     transitioning from legacy data
     integration services
     This article discusses the frequently asked questions with transition from legacy data integration
     services to Fabric link or Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse.
     Data export service, bring your own database (BYOD), and export to data lake were features
     introduced in Dynamics 365 apps to export data for analytics and data integration scenarios.
     These services enabled IT admins and specialists to export data into external databases or data
     lakes and build data integration pipelines. While we improved these services over the years with
     updates, as part of unification of Dynamics 365 with the Power Platform, the same capabilities are
     rearchitected for these disparate services into simpler, unified experiences built into Power Apps
     (make.powerapps.com). The unified and improved service is called link to Azure Synapse.
     Also available is a service named link to Microsoft Fabric where you can directly integrate
     Microsoft Dataverse, the data platform behind Dynamics 365 as well as Power Apps with
     Microsoft Fabric with no-copy, no-ETL required. Whether you link to Microsoft Fabric or upgrade
     to Azure Synapse Link, the rearchitected services provide you with an easy ramp to benefit from
     AI and Copilot investments in Dataverse and Fabric.
     What is the difference between Link to Azure Synapse
     and link to Fabric?
     Link to Azure Synapse and link to Fabric services are built into Dataverse, the platform powering
     Power Apps and all Dynamics 365 products.
     Azure Synapse Link continuously exports data from Dynamics 365 and Power Apps to your own
     storage account, allowing IT professionals to build and manage data integration pipelines with
     Azure Synapse Analytics as well as other tools.
     In contrast, link to Fabric offers a no-copy, no-ETL integration directly with Microsoft Fabric,
     keeping data within the Dataverse governance boundary for enhanced security. Fabric Link uses
     Dataverse managed storage, removing the need to configure and manage your own storage.
     When using link to Fabric, you might notice an increase in Dataverse storage consumption.
         Both these services operate across PowerApps, Dynamics 365 customer engagement apps like
         Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365 Customer Service, as well as Dynamics 365 finance and
         operations apps.
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
           Link to Fabric                                  Azure Synapse Link
           No copy, no extract, transform, load (ETL)      Export data to your own storage account and integrate with
           direct integration with Fabric.                 Azure Synapse, Fabric, and other tools.
           Data stays in Dataverse. Users get secure       Data stays in your own storage. You manage access to users.
           access in Microsoft Fabric.
           All tables chosen by default.                   System administrators can choose required tables.
           Consumes additional Dataverse storage.          Consumes your own storage and other compute and
                                                           integration tools.
         What option should I consider if I want to use
         Microsoft Fabric?
         Fabric Link provides a seamless, no-copy integration with Dataverse and Microsoft Fabric,
         eliminating the need to manage complex data export processes. With link to Microsoft Fabric,
         your data stays securely within your Dataverse environment, while authorized users in Microsoft
         Fabric can access the data, making it easier for your team to leverage data for insights without
         the hassle of managing separate storage and integration solutions. This streamlined approach
         can lead to cost savings and more efficient data utilization, especially if you’re already using
         Power BI. [Go to this article](/powerapps-docs/maker/data-platform/azure-synapse-link-
         transition-from-FnO.md#Simplification with Fabric link) for a comparison of total cost of
         ownership (TCO) between link to Microsoft Fabric and link to Azure Synapse.
         Using the Fabric Link transition tool provided by Dynamics 365 FastTrack team                , you can create
         a Fabric data warehouse with the same data shapes as export to data lake feature and minimize
         the effort to transition your existing reports and data pipelines.
         What option should I consider if I want to keep the
         data export solution?
         Upgrading from export to data lake to Azure Synapse Link enables you to preserve your
         investments with minimal changes. While Azure Synapse Link simplifies data integration by
        continuously exporting data in a more efficient Delta Parquet format, it provides similar outputs
        as export to data lake service therefore reducing the effort to switch. You can use Power BI,
        Microsoft Fabric as well as many non-Microsoft tools that support Delta Parquet format to work
        with your Dynamics 365 data. You can also secure your storage account with firewalls and enable
        restricted access via managed identities, ensuring secure data access and compliance. Go to this
        article for a comparison of total cost of ownership (TCO) between link to Fabric and link to Azure
        Synapse.
        Using the Synapse Link transition tool provided by Dynamics 365 FastTrack team   you can
        create a Synapse workspace with similar data shapes as export to data lake feature and reduce
        the effort to transition your existing reports and data pipelines.
        We don’t use Power BI or Fabric with Dynamics 365
        data, can I extract change data?
        If you use Power BI or Microsoft Fabric to gain insights from your Dynamics 365 or Power Apps
        data, Fabric Link provides the most benefits while simplifying data integration efforts. However, if
        you're using non-Microsoft tools and/or use export to data lake change feeds to incrementally
        export data to your downstream data warehouse, you can use Synapse Link incremental data
        exports instead. More information
        Using the The Data integration tool provided by Dynamics 365 FastTrack team    you can create a
        pipeline to incrementally copy change data into an Azure SQL database, Synapse dedicated pool
        or an on-premises database.
        Are there differences in columns/schema between
        Export to Data Lake and Fabric Link or Synapse Link?
        Fabric Link and Synapse Link represent a unification of legacy services built into Dynamics 365.
        The same capabilities are rearchitected to transform these disparate services into simpler, unified
        experiences built into Power Apps (make.powerapps.com). In the process, to avoid conflicts,
        minor changes are made to the schema. The underlying data engine behind Fabric Link and
        Synapse Link is the same so the changes apply both to Fabric Link and Synapse Link options:
             Renaming SQL reserved words such as Level_, Resource_.
             ID field in export to data lake tables become FnO_Id.
             Deleted rows are included. For example, Synapse Link and Fabric Link perform what is
             referred to as a "soft delete." You can use the isDelete flag to identify deleted rows and
             remove them.
             TimeZoneID (TZID) fields are removed because these are legacy fields no longer used in
             finance and operations apps.
             Fields that contain binary data are removed.
              nVarChar(max) fields are included but data is truncated at 2,000 characters.
        For more information, go to working with Finance and Operations data and metadata.
        Using the Fabric Link transition tool provided by Dynamics 365 FastTrack team   , you can create
        a Fabric data warehouse with the same data shapes as export to data lake feature and minimize
        the effort to transition your existing reports and data pipelines.
        Using the Synapse Link transition tool provided by Dynamics 365 FastTrack team     you can
        create a Synapse workspace with similar data shapes as export to data lake feature and reduce
        the effort to transition your existing reports and data pipelines.
        Using the data integration tools provided by Dynamics 365 FastTrack team     you can create a
        pipeline to incrementally copy change data into an Azure SQL database, Synapse dedicated pool
        or an on-premises database.
        Why are all Dataverse tables auto selected with Fabric
        Link, why can’t I select only the Dataverse tables
        I need?
        By selecting Link to Microsoft Fabric, the system adds all nonsystem Dataverse tables that have
        the Track changes property enabled. You can’t remove these tables as some of these tables
        might be used by Dynamics 365 as well as partner applications and removing them can cause the
        applications to fail.
        Enabling link to Fabric feature (or a Dynamics 365 application that contains insights features)
        might result in an increase in Dataverse database storage consumption. You can view additional
        storage consumption as additional files in the environment storage capacity details view in the
        Power Platform admin center. For example, you might notice an additional file "Account-
        Analytics" if you selected the "Account" table for Fabric link. Also note that the chart only displays
        tables consuming highest storage. You can get a list of tables using the menu on top right of the
        chart.
        Export to data lake service is working well for us. Why
        did you retire these services?
        As part of the Dynamics 365 platform unification project, we consolidated several services that
        “exported data” in Dynamics 365 applications to a single service under the brand name Synapse
        Link for Dataverse. Using our learnings, many shortcomings of existing services were addressed in
        Synapse Link while maintaining same data formats – so that you can upgrade your investments
        with minimal disruptions. Fabric link service is a new, no-copy, no-ETL solution, which enables you
        to leverage innovations in Fabric without having to invest in data pipelines. It’s a “read-replica” of
        your data for authorized users in Fabric.
        Why can't I find some Tables and Entities from Finance
        and Operations in tables in Link to Fabric or Link to
        Azure Synapse
        Azure Synapse Link or Fabric link enables tables where the "change tracking" property is enabled.
        Currently, change tracking can't be enabled for all finance and operations entities. The Track
        changes option is unavailable for entities created in finance and operations in the past for data
        migration. In some entities, enabling change tracking might fail with the error message chosen
        entity doesn't pass the validation rules or the Track changes checkbox is disabled for some
        entities.
        For more information about entity validation rules and how you can fix them, go to Enable row
        version change tracking for data entities. You might need developer assistance to complete the
        steps. If the chosen entity is unavailable because of the change tracking limitation, choose the
        tables that comprise the data from that entity.
        You can use the EntityUtil    solution provided by the FastTrack team to create entity shapes using
        tables.
        Is BYOD service retired? Is there a retirement date?
        As part of the Dynamics 365 platform unification project, several services that exported data in
        Dynamics 365 applications are consolidated. BYOD is a service that exports entity data into a
        customers own Azure SQL database. While a retirement date for BYOD service hasn't been
        determined, we recommend that you transition to Synapse Link or Fabric link services. Fabric link
        service is a new, no-copy, no-ETL solution, which enables you to query your data with SQL similar
        to a “read-replica” of your data in Fabric.
        Will you retire Synapse Link in the future?
        As part of the platform unification project, we have consolidated several services that exported
        data in Dynamics 365 applications to a service under the brand name Synapse Link for Dataverse.
        Fabric link, a no-copy, no-ETL solution, which enables you to leverage innovations in Fabric
        without having to invest in data pipelines is also available. Link to Fabric is a “read-replica” of
        your data for authorized users in Fabric.
        While many customers are excited to adopt Fabric, we also understand some customers want to
        continue to export data and build their own integration pipelines. As such, we want to enable you
        to export data well into the future.
        Will export to data lake service stop since it's
        deprecated after November 1, 2024?
        Export to data lake service is deprecated as of November 1, 2024 and support will be limited. You
        can reduce the risk by beginning the transition process now. We plan to decommission export to
        data lake service beginning March 25, 2025 as customers transition to Synapse Link and Fabric
        link services. We plan to start the decommissioning process with customers who have completed
        the transition as well as customers who aren't actively using the service. You'll be notified before
        the decommission process begins and have the option to ask for a past due extension via the link
        aka.ms/SynapseLinkPastDue    .
        My transition might run beyond deprecation date, is
        there a process to get an extension?
        Export to data lake service is deprecated as of November 1, 2024, but will continue to operate
        under limited support until March 25, 2025. If you haven't done so already, you should begin the
        transition process now.
        To help customers who might need more time to complete their transition, we introduced an in-
        product “past due extend” option. You can apply for a one-time “past due extension” by taking
        the survey the Azure Synapse Link area in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) or the link
        aka.ms/SynapseLinkPastDue    . This option is available only to customers who are currently
        validating either Synapse Link or Fabric Link services.
        If a past due extension is approved, you receive a confirmation e-mail and the extended date is
        shown within the product. You can join the community and stay in touch via the forum or weekly
        office hours at aka.ms/SynapseLinkforDynamics  .
     I have completed the transition, how can I uninstall
     export to data lake feature?
     If you aren't using this feature in your environment, ask your finance and operations apps
     administrator to uninstall this feature. To uninstall, visit the environment page in life cycle services
     (LCS), navigate to the Environment Add-ins section, and then select the Uninstall option in the
     Export to Data lake environment add-in.
     I received an email about transitioning Azure Synapse
     Analytics workspaces to private links before 1 August
     2026. What do I need to do?
     The trusted services capability that allows Azure Synapse Analytics to access Azure Storage
     accounts and Azure Key Vault by using a managed identity with a firewall exception was
     previously scheduled for retirement on 1 August 2026.
     To give organizations more time to assess their environments, validate migration approaches, test
     affected workloads, and complete required changes, Microsoft extended the retirement date to 1
     August 2027.
     Use this additional time to review your current configurations and plan a transition to supported
     networking options, such as private endpoints, managed virtual networks, or other recommended
     access patterns for your environment. Start evaluation and testing early to help ensure a smooth
     migration before the updated retirement date.
     If you decide to transition your Synapse workspace to private links as described in the email,
     complete the following steps to ensure Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse continues to work as
     expected:
       1. Create a Synapse workspace with a managed virtual network. A managed virtual network
        isolates your Synapse workspace and is required to use managed private endpoints. Follow
        the steps in Azure Synapse Analytics managed virtual network.
       2. Create a managed private endpoint for your storage account (ADLS Gen 2). This replaces
        the trusted services firewall exception with a private, secure connection. Follow the steps in
        Create a managed private endpoint to your data source.
       3. Enable these network settings:
            On the storage account: enable Allow Azure services and resources to access this
            storage account (under Networking > Firewalls and virtual networks).
            On the Synapse workspace: enable Allow Azure services and resources to access this
            workspace (under Networking).
        Both settings must be enabled for Azure Synapse Link to connect successfully.
     After completing these steps, your Synapse workspace connects to the storage account through
     a private endpoint instead of the trusted services firewall exception.
     Related articles
     What is Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse?
     Link your Dataverse environment to Microsoft Fabric and unlock deep insights
      Last updated on 08/03/2026
     Link your Dataverse environment to
     Microsoft Fabric and unlock deep insights
     Microsoft Dataverse direct link to Microsoft Fabric enables organizations to extend their Power
     Apps and Dynamics 365 enterprise applications, and business processes into Fabric. The Link to
     Microsoft Fabric feature built into Power Apps makes all your Dynamics 365 and Power Apps
     data available in Microsoft OneLake, the built-in data lake for Microsoft Fabric.
        No need to export data, build extract, transform, load (ETL) pipelines, or use our partner
        integration tools.
        With shortcuts from Dataverse directly into OneLake, your data stays in Dataverse while
        authorized users get to work with data in Fabric.
        Link data from all Dynamics 365 apps, including Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations
        apps.
        Build Power Apps and automations to drive action from insights in OneLake.
     Microsoft OneLake, a data lake built into Fabric, helps eliminate data silos. Combine data from
     your applications and devices web sites, mobile apps, sensors, and signals from your warehouse
     and factories with data from your business processes in Dynamics 365, such as sales, cases,
     inventory, and orders, to predict potential delays or shortages that affect keeping your promises
     to customers. Dataverse creates shortcuts to OneLake, which enables you to work with data
     without making multiple copies.
     Dataverse also generates an enterprise-ready Microsoft Fabric Lakehouse and SQL endpoint and
     a Power BI dataset for your Power Apps and Dynamics 365 data. This makes it easier for data
     analysts, data engineers, and database admins to combine business data with data already
     present in OneLake using Spark, Python, or SQL. As data gets updated, changes are reflected in
     lakehouse automatically.
     Low-code makers can build apps and automations to orchestrate business processes and react to
     insights found in Fabric. By adding those insights back to Dataverse as virtual tables connected to
     OneLake, makers build low-code apps with Power Apps, Power Pages, or Power Automate using
     the design tools already available. Using connectors to over 1,000 apps, makers create business
     processes that span Dynamics 365 as well as many other enterprise applications.
     Link to Fabric from Power Apps
    The primary way to create a Fabric link is from the Link data page in Power Apps
    (make.powerapps.com): select + New link > Fabric link. You can also link to Fabric in context
    from the Tables area by selecting Analyze > Analyze in Fabric on the command bar.
    When you select the command for the first time, a wizard driven experience links your Dataverse
    environment to a Fabric workspace. A Fabric Lakehouse, SQL endpoint, a Power BI dataset are
    created and Dataverse tables are linked to the lakehouse via shortcuts.
    Once the link is set up, you can grant other users access to the Fabric workspace so that they can
    work with Dataverse data using all Fabric workloads. The lakehouse, SQL endpoint, and Power BI
    dataset are updated with new data as changes occur in Dataverse. More information: Link to
    Microsoft Fabric
    Direct access to your data in Microsoft OneLake
    Link to Fabric creates a direct and secure Link between your data in Dataverse and a Fabric
    workspace. There's no need to provide a storage account or Synapse workspaces. When you link
    to Fabric from Power Apps, the system creates an optimized replica of your data in delta parquet
    format, the native format of Fabric and OneLake, using Dataverse storage such that your
    operational workloads aren't impacted. This replica is governed and secured by Dataverse and
    stays within the same region as your Dataverse environment while enabling Fabric workloads to
    operate on this data.
    Admins can manage tables linked to OneLake from the Link data page. By selecting the Fabric
    link and opening Manage tables, admins view tables added by makers, add more tables, and
    migrate the link to other environments. Tables added to OneLake consume Dataverse storage
    and admins can see storage consumption in the Power Platform admin center.
     ７ Note
     Microsoft continues to invest in Link to Fabric as the primary sync path, including the low-
     latency sync engine that's rolling out now. Today, a Dataverse environment links to a single
     Fabric workspace. Easier table selection for large environments and support for multiple
     Fabric links from a single environment to different Fabric workspaces are planned.
     ７ Note
     By selecting Link to Microsoft Fabric, the system adds all nonsystem Dataverse tables that
     have the Track changes property enabled. You can add more tables later.
            If you used this feature during public preview, you can continue to use the tables selected
            earlier. If you choose the Link to Fabric option in new environments (or unlink and relink
            existing environments), all tables are added.
            Enabling this feature results in an increase in Dataverse database storage consumption. You
            can view additional storage consumption in the environment storage capacity details view
            in Power Platform admin center. For an example, you notice an additional file Account-
            Analytics if you selected the Account table for Fabric link. Also note that the chart only
            displays tables consuming the most storage. You can get a complete list of tables using the
            menu on the top right of the chart.
         Comparing Link to Fabric with Azure Synapse Link
         for Dataverse
         Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse enables IT admins to export data to their own storage and build
         data integration pipelines. Azure Synapse Link assists with provisioning and configuring Azure
         resources within an integrated experience.
         Link to Fabric feature enables direct connectivity between your data in Dataverse with Microsoft
         Fabric without the need to bring your own storage and Synapse workspaces. Link to Fabric
         leverages storage built into Dataverse and removes the need to provision and manage your own
         storage.
         This table provides a comparison between the options.
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
           Link to Fabric                               Azure Synapse Link
           No copy, no ETL direct integration with      Export data to your own storage account and integrate with
           Microsoft Fabric.                            Synapse, Microsoft Fabric, and other tools.
           Data stays in Dataverse - users get secure   Data stays in your own storage. You manage access to users.
           access in Microsoft Fabric.
           All tables chosen by default.                System administrators can choose required tables.
           Consumes additional Dataverse storage.       Consumes your own storage as well as other compute and
                                                        integration tools.
         You can connect existing Azure Synapse Links with Microsoft Fabric and benefit from Fabric
         innovations like Power BI DirectLake mode reports and integrated Spark and data pipelines. You
     must create an Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse profile and enable the Delta parquet
     conversion for Fabric link option. This option isn't available for Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
     profiles that use the CSV output format.
     Next steps
     Link to Microsoft Fabric
      Last updated on 07/20/2026
     Link to Microsoft Fabric
     Microsoft Fabric integration with Microsoft Dataverse allows you to seamlessly link your Power
     Platform environment to Microsoft Fabric, enabling advanced data analysis and reporting
     capabilities. This guide provides step-by-step instructions on configuring your environment,
     linking it to Microsoft Fabric, and managing linked tables.
     You can use an existing Dataverse environment or create a new developer environment if you
     want to try this feature. More information: Create a developer environment
     Prerequisites
        You must have the System Administrator security role in the Power Platform environment to
        enable Link to Fabric or Synapse Link. This role is also required to add application users in
        your environment who need access to work with this feature by using the Power Platform
        admin center.
        You must be an administrator of the Power BI workspace.
        If you want the system to create a Power BI workspace, you need to have Power BI Capacity
        Administrator access to a capacity within the same region as the Dataverse environment.
        A Power BI premium license or Fabric capacity within the same Azure geographical region as
        your Dataverse environment is required. If you don’t have Power BI premium license or
        Fabric capacity within the same geographical region, you can buy a capacity or sign up for a
        free Fabric trial capacity. More information: Fabric (preview) trial
        Your administrator needs to grant you access to create Fabric lakehouses and artifacts. You
        can find these settings in the Fabric admin portal. Go to Tenant Settings > Microsoft Fabric
        > Users can create Fabric items, Tenant settings > Workspace settings > Create
        workspaces as well as Tenant settings > oneLake settings > Users can access data stored
        in OneLake with apps external to Fabric.
        If you plan to use workspace identity authentication, you must be a workspace admin to
        create and manage a workspace identity. The workspace you're creating the identity for
        can't be a My Workspace. More information: Workspace identity in Fabric
        If you plan to use workspace identity authentication, the workspace identity must be
        onboarded as an application user in the Dataverse environment and granted the
        appropriate role (commonly System Administrator) so it can access Dataverse data on
        behalf of Fabric.
             You must have permissions in Fabric to manage connections via Settings > Manage
             connections and gateways.
             To confirm whether you have access to the required premium capacity, go to Power BI  ,
             open the workspace, and select Workspace settings > Premium. Make sure that Trial or
             Premium capacity is selected.
                                                                                                 
        Create a link to Fabric
        The Link data page in Power Apps is the home for every way you move Dataverse data out for
        analytics. It has two sections: Fabric Links for links to Microsoft Fabric, and Other Links for Azure
        Synapse Link and other targets. Start a Fabric link from this page:
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   and select the environment you want.
           2. On the left navigation pane, select Link data. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
             More and then select the item you want.
                                             
     3. Select + New link, and then in the Create new link pane, select the Link data via Fabric tile,
      which is marked Recommended.
                                             
      Tip
     You can also start a Fabric link in context from the Power Apps Tables area: select Analyze >
     Analyze in Fabric on the command bar. This shortcut opens the same wizard. The Tables >
     Analyze menu creates Fabric links only. You can no longer create an Azure Synapse Link
     from Tables > Analyze. To create an Azure Synapse Link, use the Link data page and select
     Other Links.
    The Fabric link wizard guides you through four steps: Getting started, Setup Configuration,
    Select Tables, and Review and create.
    Step 1: Getting started
    The wizard opens on a Getting started page that summarizes what the link does and checks your
    prerequisites and Fabric capacity. If you don't have a Fabric capacity in the same geography or
    region as your Dataverse environment, the wizard notifies you to get a capacity in the required
    geography. Select Next to continue.
                                             
    Step 2: Set up configuration
    On the Setup Configuration step, select the target Fabric workspace, and then create the
    Connection that authenticates to Fabric. When you create the connection, choose one of three
    authentication options. Workspace identity is the recommended option: it removes the need to
    manage secrets and avoids the service principal misconfiguration that is the most common Fabric
    link setup failure.
     ） Important
     Workspace identity is a property of the Fabric workspace, not the Dataverse link. A Fabric
     workspace admin enables it once on the workspace, outside Dataverse. After it exists on the
     workspace, every Dataverse link to that workspace can use it. To enable it, go to Create and
     manage a workspace identity.
      Workspace Identity:
      To use this option, you must first create a workspace identity in Fabric:
        1. In Fabric, open the target workspace.
        2. Go to Workspace settings > Workspace Identity.
        3. Select + Workspace Identity to create it.
          Note the name of the workspace identity (it matches the workspace name).
        4. For more information, go to Workspace identity in Fabric.
      Create an application user with workspace identity:
      After you create the identity, add it as an application user in Dataverse:
        Go to Power Platform admin center > Users (See all) > App users list.
        Select + New app user, then + Add an app, search for the workspace name you noted
        earlier (srr-athena-test in the above example), and add it.
        Assign the correct Business unit and System Administrator role, then select Create.
        For detailed steps, go to the Create an application user in Dataverse step.
      Service Principal:
      To use this option, go to the create an application user with workspace identity previous
      step to create a service principal. Then, follow these steps:
        1. First, add the service principal as an application user in Dataverse following the same
         process described in the Workspace Identity section.
        2. After adding the application user, return to the Link to Fabric wizard.
        3. In the connection setup, provide the following details for your service principal:
          Tenant ID: Your Azure tenant identifier.
          Client ID: The application (client) ID of your service principal.
          Key: The client secret or certificate for authentication.
        4. Save the connection to complete the setup.
      Organizational Account:
      Provide your credentials and save the connection. To change credentials later, select Switch
      account and provide new credentials.
    When the selected workspace has a workspace identity configured, the wizard recommends
    selecting it as the authentication kind for the connection.
                                             
    If the selected workspace doesn't have a workspace identity yet, the wizard tells you so. You can
    continue with an organizational account or service principal, or ask a Fabric workspace admin to
    add a workspace identity to the workspace.
                                             
    When the connection is established, the step shows a success confirmation. Select Next to
    continue.
                                             
     ７ Note
     If you use workspace identity or service principal authentication, onboard the identity as an
     application user in the Dataverse environment and grant the appropriate role (commonly
     System Administrator) so it can access Dataverse data on behalf of Fabric. For more
     information, see Create an application user in Dataverse.
    Step 3: Select tables
     1. On the Select Tables step, choose the Dataverse tables you want to sync to Fabric. If your
      environment is linked to finance and operations apps, you can also select tables from those
      apps. By default, the wizard selects Dataverse tables that have the Track changes property
      enabled. Clear any tables you don't want to sync. Only selected tables consume storage in
      Fabric, so you can optimize costs by excluding tables you don't need.
     2. Select Next.
                                             
     ７ Note
     You can change this selection any time after setup from the standalone Manage tables
     surface. You no longer have to edit the link to add or remove tables. For more information,
     see Add or remove tables linked to Fabric.
    Step 4: Review and create
    On the Review and create step, review your selections, and then select Finish. The wizard creates
    the workspace artifacts, creates the shortcuts, and performs the first initialization. You can watch
    the progress of each task on this step.
                                             
    When the link is created, it appears under Fabric Links on the Link data page. You land directly in
    the standalone Manage tables surface for the new link, which you can also open at any time from
    the command bar.
                                             
     ７ Note
     It might take up to 60 minutes to update data in OneLake including the conversion to delta
     parquet format. If you selected a table that contains a lot of data, the initial load time might
     take longer. When you open Fabric lakehouse, the links appear as unidentified until the
     initial sync is completed. More information: Troubleshooting common issues
     When the initial sync is complete, the system continuously refreshes updates in Dataverse in
     the lakehouse. It might take up to 60 minutes for the data to be refreshed especially during
      peak load periods.
      If you have more than 2,000 active Dataverse tables, Link to Fabric can fail with an error. Go
      to Troubleshooting common issues for help with resolving issues.
      The link was labeled as Microsoft OneLake and is now labeled Link to Fabric.
      ） Important
      The lakehouse created by Link to Fabric currently follows the naming pattern
      <environmentname>_<internalprofile>_<workspace>_<uniquevalue> (for example, the
      internalprofile portion appears as CDS2 or CDS3). Don't take a dependency on this
      lakehouse name in your downstream code, queries, or pipelines. The name format is subject
      to change without notice, and the historical significance of the CDS2 or CDS3 segment no
      longer applies and is likely to be dropped in the future. Reference the lakehouse through
      stable identifiers (such as the workspace and lakehouse ID) instead of parsing the display
      name.
     Low-latency sync
     Low-latency sync is a faster sync engine for Link to Fabric. It writes data directly from the
     Dataverse database to Delta Parquet, removing the intermediate CSV step used by the previous
     pipeline.
     Benefits:
        Faster initial sync.
        Faster delta sync for incremental changes.
        Higher throughput for finance and operations apps tables, up to 1M or more records per
        hour per table. Actual sync times depend on initial load, data churn, table sizes, and number
        of columns.
     Low-latency sync rolls out by station and is enabled automatically. There's no separate opt-in.
     Once your station is enabled, new Link to Fabric setups use the new engine through the same
     setup experience.
     To confirm a profile is running on low-latency sync, select Link data from the left navigation, and
     then select your Fabric link under Fabric Links. If you see the Low-latency mode flag on your
     Fabric link in the link list, low-latency sync is enabled for that profile.
                                             
    Existing Fabric link profiles continue to use the previous sync engine. To move an existing profile
    to low-latency sync after it's available in your station, unlink the profile and relink it.
     ７ Note
     Unlinking and relinking triggers a full initial sync for all configured tables. Initial sync can
     copy large volumes of data, so schedule it during off-peak hours or on weekends when
     traffic in your environment is lower.
     ） Important
     If you use long-term retention and currently see live and retained data together through
     Fabric shortcuts, note the following before you unlink and relink for low-latency sync:
       After you relink, the shortcuts include live data only. Retained data is no longer
       surfaced through the shortcuts for the tables you relinked, so reporting on retained
       data through Fabric isn't available for those tables.
       Long-term retention itself isn't affected. Retention jobs continue to run as configured,
       and your retained data is preserved. Only the shortcut-based reporting view of
       retained data is impacted.
       We're working on migrating retained data to the low-latency sync format. Once that
       migration completes, your previously retained data starts appearing through the
       relinked profile alongside live data, with no further action required from you.
       Low-latency sync writes timestamp columns as INT64. The INT96 timestamp format
       used by the previous Fabric link sync engine isn't supported. Review any downstream
       dependencies such as queries, pipelines, semantic models, or external readers that
       explicitly handle INT96 timestamps and update them to read INT64.
        Prerequisites for finance and operations apps
        If you're running finance and operations apps, your environment must be on a supported build
        before low-latency sync works. The following table lists the minimum required builds by app
        version.
                                                                                            ﾉ Expand table
          Finance and operations version       Minimum platform build         Minimum application build
          10.0.47                              7.0.7858.157                   10.0.2527.192
          10.0.48                              7.0.7996.100                   10.0.2645.108
          10.0.49                              7.0.8199.19                    10.0.2790.30
        To check your build, in your finance and operations environment, go to Help & Support > About
        to see your current platform and application build numbers.
        If your build is below the minimum listed for your app version, apply the latest quality update for
        your version before setting up low-latency sync.
           ７ Note
           If you're not sure which app version you're on, contact your system administrator or
           Microsoft support team.
        Manage link to Fabric
        This section describes how to add or remove tables linked to Fabric, configure the link to use
        workspace identity, and share the data connection with other users.
        Add or remove tables linked to Fabric
        Manage the tables linked to Fabric from the standalone Manage tables surface. Open it from the
        command bar on your Fabric link at any time. You don't need to edit the link to add or remove
        tables. Your Fabric links appear under Fabric Links on the Link data page.
                                                                                                   
        Add tables to Fabric
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
                ７ Note
                This feature is enabled by default on all environments. Power Platform admins can
                disable this feature in the Power Platform admin center. More information:
                Environment settings: Microsoft Fabric
           2. Select Link data from the left navigation pane, and then select your Fabric link under Fabric
             Links.
           3. Open Fabric by selecting View in Microsoft Fabric.
           4. Add more table links to Fabric by selecting Manage tables.
           5. When you add a table, the system performs an initial sync and indexes the data. When the
             initial sync is completed, a shortcut to OneLake is created. View the status of tables by
             selecting Manage tables. Use the Refresh Fabric tables option to add the newly enabled
             table in Fabric. You might need to review the report and downstream data flows to ensure
             that they're not impacted by the change.
                ７ Note
       If your environment is linked to a Dynamics 365 finance and operations environment,
       the add tables option enables you to include tables from finance and operations apps.
       Learn more: Choose finance and operations data in Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
     6. When the sync status is Active, as data gets updated, your data changes are shown in
      reports created in Fabric.
     7. If you add a new column to a table that’s already part of the profile (also known as a
      metadata change), use the Refresh Fabric tables option from the command bar to update
      the change in Fabric. The update occurs after the next table data change is triggered. You
      might need to review the report and downstream data flows to confirm that they're not
      impacted by the change.
     8. You can also Unlink, which removes the Fabric link to your Dataverse environment. When
      unlinking, the Fabric lakehouse is also removed.
     ７ Note
     If you've installed Dynamics 365 apps such as Customer Insights, the tables required for the
     app are also included in the Link to Fabric link.
    Remove tables from Fabric
    You can stop syncing specific Dataverse and finance and operations apps tables to reduce
    storage costs and optimize your Fabric workspace. After accessing Manage tables (as described
    in step 4 in Manage link to Fabric), follow these steps to unlink tables:
     1. The Manage tables pane shows all Dataverse and finance and operations apps tables
      currently linked to Fabric.
     2. Tables that are already syncing are checked.
     3. To stop syncing a table, clear the option to select it.
                                          
     4. To keep syncing, leave it checked.
     5. After making your selections, select Save.
     6. A confirmation dialog appears listing the tables that stop syncing.
                                          
     7. Review the list, and then select Confirm.
    After confirmation:
      Shortcuts for the unselected tables are removed from the Fabric lakehouse.
      Selected tables are removed from the internal storage that are synchronized to Fabric via
      shortcuts. This ensures that you're paying only for the storage of tables that you selected.
      Synchronization stops immediately for those tables no longer selected.
      Remaining tables continue syncing without interruption.
     ） Important
       Some system tables and tables required by Microsoft add-ins can't be removed. More
       information: Are there system tables that are automatically synchronized and can't be
       unlinked?
       Removing a table doesn't delete the table in Dataverse; it only removes the OneLake
       shortcut and stops data sync.
       If you need to add tables later, repeat the same steps and check the tables you want to
       include. More information: Manage link to Fabric.
    Configure Fabric link to use workspace identity
    If you linked your Dataverse environment to Fabric earlier using an organizational account, you
    can switch to workspace identity or service principal. Workspace identity is a Fabric managed
    service principal bound to a specific workspace; it removes the need to manage secrets and
    enables secure, keyless authentication for Fabric items that connect to Dataverse.
    Things to verify before you begin
    Before proceeding, ensure you meet the requirements described in the Prerequisites section, and
    specifically verify these three essential items:
      Workspace identity exists: The target Fabric workspace must have a workspace identity
      configured. Go to Workspace settings > Workspace Identity. If the identity doesn't exist,
      create it first. More information: Workspace identity in Fabric
      Dataverse application user: The same workspace identity must be onboarded as an
      application user in the Dataverse environment and granted the appropriate role (commonly
      System Administrator) so it can access Dataverse data on behalf of Fabric. This might
      already be in place if you followed the Workspace Identity steps in the Create a link to
      Fabric section previously.
      Rights to edit connections: You must have permissions in Fabric to manage connections via
      Settings > Manage connections and gateways.
    What changes?
    After you update the connection's authentication method to Workspace identity, all Fabric items
    that use that connection (for example, Lakehouses via OneLake shortcuts, Dataflows Gen2,
    pipelines, semantic models) authenticate with your workspace identity going forward.
    Before you begin
    Identify the connection name. When you used Link to Microsoft Fabric, the system created a
    Dataverse connection that typically includes (or matches) your environment name. You update
    this specific connection.
    Switch to workspace identity authentication
     1. Open Fabric settings
         In Microsoft Fabric, select the gear icon (top right) and choose Settings > Manage
         connections and gateways.
                                          
     2. Locate the Dataverse connection created by Link to Fabric
         In Manage connections and gateways, open the Connections tab (if not already
         selected).
         Find the connection associated with your Dataverse environment. The Link to Fabric
         wizard typically creates this connection and names it using your environment's name
         so it's easy to recognize.
     3. Open the connection's management pane
         Select the ellipsis (⋮) next to the connection and choose Settings to open its settings.
                                
     4. Switch the authentication method to Workspace identity
         In the connection's Settings pane, go to Authentication.
         From the Authentication method dropdown, select Workspace identity.
         Select Save to apply the change.
      ７ Note
      If your items run through a gateway, review your gateway and cloud connection policies as
      applicable. Fabric's manage connections and gateways experience governs connection
      usage, including gateway scenarios for shareable cloud connections.
     Share the data connection with other users
     The system creates a data connection between the Power Platform environment and Fabric
     workspace using the credentials of the user at the time of link creation. If you use the Fabric link
     option from the Power Apps Tables area, the system creates the connection and asks you to save
     it. If you use the Synapse Link option, you must create a data connection yourself before
     enabling the link.
     The system uses this connection to enable Fabric users to connect to Dataverse - the data store
     behind the Power Platform environment. If you want to enable other users to add or remove
     tables to Fabric link, you need to share this data connection with other users.
       1. Follow steps 1-2 from Switch to workspace identity authentication to access Manage
        connections and gateways and locate your Dataverse connection.
       2. Once you select the correct data connection, select ... > Manage users. Then you're shown
        users who have access to this connection.
       3. Enter the name or email of other users who need access to data. When you select a user,
        specify either the Owner role or Reader role. You only need to provide reader role to enable
        them to consume data. The users you specify receive an e-mail confirming access to data.
     You might need to grant access to other users to this workspace so that they can work with data.
     Depending on the need for data access, you might need to secure the data in this workspace
     before you share this data with others. You can secure the lakehouse as well as tables within the
     lakehouse using OneLake security. More information: OneLake security overview
     You can only create user based connections at this time.
     Link existing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse links
     with Fabric
     You can link your existing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse profiles with Fabric. These profiles
     appear under Other Links on the Link data page. You need to select the Enable Parquet/Delta
        lake option to enable the view in the Fabric feature for Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse profiles.
        To enable an existing link, follow these steps:
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. Select Link data from the left navigation, and then select Other Links.
           3. Select an existing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse profile, and then select Link to
             Microsoft Fabric.
           4. You're prompted to choose a Power BI premium workspace to continue. A list of workspaces
             in the same region as your environment are displayed. If you don’t see a workspace in the
             drop-down list, you might need to create one, and then return to this task. More
             information Link to Microsoft Fabric
           5. Select OK. Validations are performed and the required artifacts are created in Fabric.
           6. Select View in Microsoft Fabric open Fabric lakehouse.
           7. You can add or remove tables by selecting Manage tables. When you add a table, an initial
             sync is performed. When the initial sync is completed, select Refresh Fabric tables to refresh
             the Dataverse shortcut added to your Fabric lakehouse.
          ７ Note
                Select Enable Parquet/Delta lake to enable the view in Fabric.
                Existing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse profiles where the data is saved as CSV files
                can't be linked to Microsoft Fabric.
                Currently, Azure Synapse Link profiles secured with managed identities, formerly
                Managed Service Identity (MSI), can't be linked to Microsoft Fabric.
        Next steps
        Work with Dataverse data and generate Power BI reports
         Last updated on 08/11/2026
     Work with Dataverse data and generate
     Power BI reports
     This section describes the different ways you can work with Microsoft Dataverse data in Microsoft
     Fabric and generate reports in Power BI.
     You can view the Fabric lakehouse, SQL endpoint, and the default dataset generated by Dataverse
     in the Fabric workspace you chose earlier.
     When you select Link to Microsoft Fabric, a Dataverse generated Fabric lakehouse opens. You
     can go to other Fabric features and work with Fabric and Power BI.
     Explore the Dataverse generated Fabric lakehouse
     The tables you selected are added to the Fabric lakehouse and displayed in Power BI as shown
     here. These tables are linked to your Power Platform environment using Dataverse shortcuts. As
     data changes in Dataverse, the Dataverse shortcuts in Fabric reflect the latest data.
     Note that Dataverse manages these shortcuts. You shouldn't delete or remove these shortcuts in
     Fabric. If you accidentally delete a link, you can go to the Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse area
     in Power Apps and select Refresh Fabric links to re-create the links.
     Explore data with SQL endpoint
     You can open SQL endpoint and query Dataverse data with SQL and generate views in Fabric.
     In Power BI, select SQL endpoint from the top right context menu. The data is displayed in a SQL
     friendly experience where you can create SQL queries and views.
     Autocreate a Power BI report
     Choose the default dataset generated by Dataverse, and then select Auto-create report. A Power
     BI report with the data you have selected is created.
     Related articles
     Link your Dataverse environment to Microsoft Fabric and unlock deep insights
      Last updated on 04/30/2026
    Build apps and automations, and drive
    action with insights from Microsoft Fabric
    Link to Microsoft Fabric in Microsoft Dataverse enables extending your data and insights in
    Dynamics 365 and Power Apps in Fabric. Bring your own data into Fabric and combine, reshape,
    and aggregate data with data from Dataverse. Use Fabric tools such as SQL, Spark, and dataflows
    to work with your data within Fabric. For example:
       Combine financial data from Dynamics 365 with financial data from other systems to derive
       consolidated insights.
       Merge historical data ingested into Microsoft OneLake from legacy systems with current
       business data from Dynamics 365 and Dataverse.
       Combine weblogs and telemetry data from your website with product and order details
       from Dynamics 365.
       Apply machine learning to detect anomalies and exceptions within your data.
    Insights aren't complete unless you can drive action and business processes. Bring insights you
    found in Fabric to build apps, drive business processes with Power Automate without data copy,
    no-ETL (extract, transform, load), or non-Microsoft integration tools.
    With Dataverse virtual tables sourced with Fabric, your low-code app builders connect to data in
    OneLake and build Power Apps and drive business actions. Additionally, with Power Pages, low-
    code makers can build external facing websites and drive action from OneLake insights with
    partners, suppliers, and customers.
        Prerequisites
             An existing Dataverse environment or you can create a new developer environment. More
             information: Create a developer environment
             Contributor or administrator access to a Fabric workspace with data.
        If you don’t have Power BI premium license or Fabric capacity, you can sign up for a free Fabric
        trial capacity.
        If you don't have a workspace with data, create a workspace with sample data using the
        lakehouse tutorial.
        Create a virtual table with Fabric data
        Follow these steps to create a virtual table using Fabric data.
          ７ Note
          This feature is enabled by default with all environments. Admins can disable this feature in
          the Power Platform admin center in the environment feature settings.
           1. Sign into Power Apps  , and then select Tables on the left navigation pane.
           2. On the command bar, select New table > Create a virtual table.
       3. Select Microsoft Fabric as the connection, and then select Next.
       4. Select a Microsoft Fabric workspace from the available list of workspaces. All workspace
        where you have access are available in the list.
       5. Choose a Microsoft Fabric Lakehouse from the drop-down list. All lakehouses and data
        warehouses within the workspace selected previously are available to choose.
       6. On the Data page, select a table from the list of tables shown from the lakehouse. Select
        Configure table and column names that will be used in Dataverse if you want to rename
        any of the fields or tables in Dataverse or to specify additional properties available for you
        in Dataverse. Select Next.
       7. If you selected the Configure table and column names that will be used in Dataverse
        checkbox, you're shown the table and column properties and you can modify them here.
        When you're done modifying them select Next.
       8. Verify that the field chosen for primary key field is a unique field. You might need to verify
        the default field selected by the system as the primary key.
         ７ Note
         While the table you selected from Fabric Lakehouse might not have a primary key
         defined, you need to select a field that is unique to continue. If you don't select a
         unique field, the table might not show all the records. While the wizard selects a field
         based on metadata available, the selection might not be accurate.
       9. Review the information shown, and then select Finish.
     A new Dataverse virtual table is created with data from Fabric.
     Building apps and taking action with insights
     You can build an app with the virtual table sourced with Fabric data in Power Apps
     (make.powerapps.com). From the Home page, select Start with data > Select an existing table,
     select the virtual table created earlier, and then select Create app. Provide a name for your app
     and build the app by following the wizard.
      ７ Note
      Virtual tables created with data from Microsoft Fabric OneLake are read-only. Currently, you
      can't modify the data in Fabric OneLake with Power Apps.
     See also
     Create and edit virtual tables that contain data from an external data source
      Last updated on 04/09/2026
     Microsoft Fabric Link for Dataverse FAQ
     This article provides information about frequently asked questions when you link Microsoft
     Dataverse to Microsoft Fabric.
     General
     What authentication methods are supported for
     Fabric link?
     Fabric link supports three authentication methods when creating a connection:
        Organizational Account: Provide your credentials and save the connection.
        Service Principal: Provide Tenant ID, Client ID, and Key for authentication.
        Workspace Identity: Uses a Fabric-managed service principal bound to a specific
        workspace.
     What happens when I unlink from Fabric?
     When you unlink, the Fabric lakehouse is removed along with all shortcuts to your Dataverse
     tables.
     Table support and limitations
     Which Dataverse tables are selected by default when
     linking to Fabric?
     During the initial Link to Fabric setup, the Select Entities step shows all Dataverse tables where
     the Track changes property is enabled. By default, all these tables are selected. You can clear any
     tables you don't want to sync before completing the wizard. Only selected tables are linked to
     Fabric and consume storage, so you can optimize costs by excluding tables you don't need. You
     can change your selection anytime after setup by using Manage Tables.
     Which Dataverse tables aren't supported for
     Fabric link?
     Any table that doesn't have change tracking enabled isn't supported. Additionally, certain
     Dataverse tables, such as postcomment, postregarding, postlike, post, and postrole, aren't
     available for customers to enable synchronization through Fabric link. In some cases, these tables
     might appear when Dataverse long term retention is enabled. If that happens, a subset or all
     records from these tables might be exported. This is expected behavior for long term retention
     scenarios.
      ） Important
         These tables shouldn't be selected for synchronization.
         Their presence doesn't indicate full support for incremental sync.
     Can I add or remove specific tables from Fabric link?
     Yes, you can manage which tables are linked:
        Add more table links to Fabric by selecting Manage tables.
        To stop syncing specific tables, clear them in the Manage tables pane and then select Save
        After confirmation, shortcuts for unselected tables are removed from the Fabric Lakehouse
        and sync stops immediately.
      ） Important
      Removing a table doesn't delete the table in Dataverse; it only removes the OneLake
      shortcut and stops data sync.
     Are elastic tables supported for Fabric link?
     Yes, elastic tables are supported with Fabric link. Ensure that change tracking is enabled for elastic
     tables in Dataverse for the sync to happen.
     Are Finance and Operations apps tables supported?
     If your environment is linked to a Dynamics 365 finance and operations environment, the add
     tables option enables you to include tables from finance and operations apps. Finance and
     operations apps tables aren't autoselected when creating the initial Fabric link.
     Are there system tables that are automatically
     synchronized and can't be unlinked?
     Yes, certain system tables are automatically synchronized in Link to Fabric and can't be unlinked
     by users. Examples of these system tables include:
        bot
        msdyn_copilotknowledgeinteraction
        desktopflowmodule
        flowmachine
        flowmachinegroup
        workflow
     These tables are essential for system functionality and are always included in the synchronization
     process.
     Microsoft provided add-ins and table selection
     Fabric link table selection is also dependent on Microsoft provided add-ins such as Business
     Process Advisor (BPA) and Customer Insights - Journeys. These products use the same pipeline to
     export data from Dataverse to provide transformed insights.
     The tables that you can't unselect depends on which add-on products you enabled. When you
     enable an add-in (for example, Customer Insights - Journeys), the specific tables required by that
     add-in are added to the entityanalyticsconfig table in Dataverse.
     Any table that has isenabledforadls set to true in the entityanalyticsconfig table can't be selected
     from the Fabric link.
     What happens when I add a new column to a
     linked table?
     If a new column is added to a table that's already part of the profile (metadata change), you can
     use the Refresh Fabric tables option from the command bar to update the change in Fabric. The
     update occurs after the next table data change is triggered.
     Data Synchronization
     How long does initial data synchronization take?
     Initial sync time depends on several factors including table size, number of updates and
     transactions happening in the environment, number of tables, and row count. The data is
     converted to delta parquet format during this process. When you open Fabric Lakehouse, the
     links appear as unidentified until the initial sync is completed.
     How often is data refreshed in Fabric?
     When the initial sync is complete, the system continuously refreshes updates in Dataverse in the
     lakehouse. Incremental updates typically take up to one hour to appear, though actual timing
     depends on table size, number of updates and transactions happening in the environment,
     number of tables, row count, and system load periods.
     Why am I seeing differences in `SinkModifiedOn` and
     `ModifiedOn` columns?
     This is expected behavior. ModifiedOn is the date and time a record was last changed in
     Dataverse, while SinkModifiedOn is the date and time the record was written to the Dataverse
     data lake from where Fabric shortcuts point to. SinkModifiedOn is typically later than ModifiedOn,
     and the difference depends on factors such as batch size, system load, and the number of
     records being processed.
      ） Important
      In the case of long-running transactions in finance and operations apps, a record might be
      synchronized multiple times to ensure no data loss. In this scenario, SinkModifiedOn reflects
      the last synchronization time, not the first. For example, if a record is synced 10 times within
      an hour, SinkModifiedOn shows the time of the 10th sync even though the data was
      available from the first sync itself. Use caution when building latency reports based on the
      difference between SinkModifiedOn and ModifiedOn, as it can give a misleading impression
      of actual data availability.
     Limitations and Errors
     What are the limits for Fabric Link?
     If you have more than 2,000 active Dataverse tables, Link to Fabric can fail with an error.
     Are there per-record size limits when using Link
     to Fabric?
     Yes. Link to Fabric reads rows through Dataverse, so every Dataverse per-record limit applies to
     sync. The most common limit is the 200 MiB cap on the uncompressed size of a single record
     returned by the server.
     This limit typically applies to tables that store large free-form content or binary data. For
     example:
        email holds the full message body.
        activitypointer holds long descriptions.
        activitymimeattachment holds inline and attached files.
     This is a Dataverse platform limit and can't be raised on request. The service doesn't truncate or
     modify customer data. To resolve, reduce the oversized record in Dataverse by deleting it,
     clearing the large field, or moving the content out of Dataverse.
     Can I link existing Azure Synapse Link profiles
     to Fabric?
     You can link your existing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse profiles with Fabric if you select the
     Enable Parquet/Delta lake option. However:
        Existing profiles where the data is saved as CSV files can't be linked to Fabric.
        Azure Synapse Link profiles secured with managed identities currently can't be linked to
        Fabric.
     See also
     Link to Microsoft Fabric
     Troubleshooting common issues with link to Fabric
     Work with Dataverse data and generate Power BI reports
      Last updated on 06/11/2026
         Troubleshooting common issues with link
         to Fabric
         If you experience an error message when using link to Fabric with Microsoft Dataverse, here are
         suggestions and more information about how to resolve the issue.
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
           Error message                                         How to resolve
           You must have Power BI premium or Fabric              You need a Power BI premium of a Fabric capacity in
           capacity in the same region {Region}. You can also    the same region as your Dataverse environment.
           get a Fabric trial.                                   Power BI premium per user capacity isn't sufficient.
                                                                 You can get a free trial capacity by visiting Fabric
           You won't receive this error after April 30, 2024.    (preview) trial.
           Instead, you're shown an error if you don't have      More information: Prerequisites
           capacity in the same geography.
           Creation of Fabric workspace failed. You can try      You must be a Power BI Capacity Administrator or
           again. If this issue persists contact Microsoft       have contributor access to a capacity within the same
           customer support with the corelation ID.              geography as your Dataverse environment.
                                                                 Currently, the system supports these premium
                                                                 capacity SKUs described in the Prerequisites.
                                                                 Verify with your Power BI Tenant admin that you have
                                                                 permissions to create workspaces. You can find this
                                                                 setting in Power BI Admin portal under Tenant
                                                                 settings > workspace settings > Create workspaces.
                                                                 If the issue isn't resolved, contact Microsoft customer
                                                                 support with the provided reference ID
           Creation of Fabric lakehouse failed. You can try      Verify with your Power BI Tenant admin that you have
           again. If this issue persists contact Microsoft       permissions to create OneLake shortcuts. You can find
           customer support with the corelation ID.              this setting in Power BI Admin portal under Admin
                                                                 Portal > Tenant Settings > Microsoft Fabric > Users
                                                                 can create Fabric items.
                                                                 More information: Prerequisites
                                                                 If the issue isn't resolved after several retries, you can
                                                                 contact Microsoft customer support with the provided
                                                                 reference ID.
           We ran into an issue, Creaton of Fabric Lakehouse     Verify with your Power BI tenant admin that you have
           failed.                                               permissions to create artifacts in Fabric. You can find
                                                                 this setting in Power BI admin portal under Tenant
                                                                 settings > oneLake settings > Users can access data
                                                                 stored in OneLake with apps external to Fabric.
           Error message                                             How to resolve
                                                                     More information: Prerequisites
                                                                     If the issue isn't resolved after several retries, you can
                                                                     contact Microsoft customer support with the provided
                                                                     reference ID.
           Your organization doesn't appear to have                  Contact your administrator or get a trial version of
           Microsoft Fabric. You can get a trial.                    Microsoft Fabric.
           You need to get a trial version of Fabric to get          You need a Power BI premium of a Fabric capacity.
           started.                                                  Power BI premium per user capacity isn't sufficient.
                                                                     You can get a free trial capacity by visiting: Fabric
                                                                     (preview) trial
           You need to be a system administrator to link to          You need the system administrator security role in
           Fabric.                                                   Dataverse to perform this operation. More
                                                                     information: Security roles and privileges
           Newly added fields in tables aren't reflected in          When a new field is added to a Dataverse table, the
           Fabric Lakehouse.                                         newly added column isn't added to Fabric Linked
                                                                     workspaces automatically. To include newly added
                                                                     columns, select Synapse Link in Power Apps
                                                                     (make.powerapps.com), select the Microsoft OneLake
                                                                     or the Azure Synapse Link profile and select Refresh
                                                                     Fabric tables. This action refreshes the table metadata
                                                                     in Fabric Lakehouse.
           Error message "Unauthorized. Access to target             This error message indicates that the user accessing
           location https://[...].crm3.dynamics.com/ denied"         tables in Fabric doesn't have the required permissions
           when accessing Dataverse tables in Fabric                 to access Dataverse tables. This error might be shown
           Lakehouse.                                                even if the same user has access to the tables in
                                                                     Dataverse.
                                                                     The Link to Fabric wizard in Power Apps creates a data
                                                                     connection at the time of creating the Link to Fabric.
                                                                     This data connection uses credentials of the user, it's
                                                                     possible that:
                                                                     - The password of the user who created the
                                                                     connection has changed or has expired.
                                                                     - The user account of the user who created the Fabric
                                                                     link is inactive.
                                                                     - Other users who need to access Dataverse tables in
                                                                     Fabric Lakehouse don't have access to the data
                                                                     connection. More information: Share the data
                                                                     connection with other users
           Error message "A back end error occurred. The             This error message indicates that the user selecting
           Fabric to Dataverse connection ID ... is not valid for    the Refresh Fabric tables option in the Azure Synapse
           this user. Please check that you have access to this      Link page doesn't have the required permissions. This
           connection, and that the connection is connected          error might be shown even when the user has access
                                                                     to the tables in Dataverse and is a system
           Error message                                             How to resolve
           to this organization, with URL ... You can try again,     administrator.
           if this issue persists please contact support.            The link to Fabric wizard in Power Apps creates a data
                                                                     connection at the time of creating the link to Fabric.
                                                                     This data connection uses credentials of the user, it's
                                                                     possible that:
                                                                     - The password of the user who created the
                                                                     connection has changed or has expired.
                                                                     - The user account of the user who created the Fabric
                                                                     link is inactive.
                                                                     - The user performing the Refresh Fabric tables
                                                                     option doesn't have access to the data connection.
                                                                     More information: Share the data connection with
                                                                     other users
           All tables from Dataverse show as Unidentified in         You might see this error message while your data is
           Fabric Lakehouse.                                         being initialized for the first time. If this issue persists
                                                                     for more than several hours, go to Synapse Link in
                                                                     Power Apps (make.powerapps.com), choose the
                                                                     Microsoft OneLake or the Azure Synapse Link profile
                                                                     and select Refresh Fabric Links. This refreshes the
                                                                     table metadata in Fabric Lakehouse.
           Tables from Dynamics 365 finance and operations           System auto selects nonsystem tables with Change
           apps are missing.                                         tracking property set to Yes when creating a Fabric
                                                                     Link. To select more tables, open Microsoft OneLake
                                                                     profile in Synapse Link and select Manage Tables. If
                                                                     you have a finance and operations environment linked
                                                                     to this Power Platform environment, you can also
                                                                     select tables from finance and operations apps.
                                                                     Finance and operations apps tables aren't
                                                                     autoselected with Fabric Link.
                                                                     More information: Add Finance and Operations tables
           There are {.. #tables} tables enabled for change          Fabric link feature currently can't be enabled on
           tracking in your environment. Addition of more            environments with more than 2,000 change tracking
           than 2,000 tables isn't supported.                        enabled tables.
          See also
          Link your Dataverse environment to Microsoft Fabric and unlock deep insights
          Link to Microsoft Fabric
           Last updated on 04/27/2026
    What is Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse?
    Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse enables you to get near real-time insights over your data in
    Microsoft Dataverse. With a tight seamless integration between Dataverse and Azure Synapse
    Analytics, Azure Synapse Link enables you to run analytics, business intelligence and machine
    learning scenarios on your data.
     ７ Note
     Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The service was
     renamed May 2021 and continues to export data to Azure Data Lake as well as Azure
     Synapse Analytics.
    Using Azure Synapse Link, continuously export data from Dataverse to:
      Azure Synapse Analytics
      Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
    The Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse is a service designed for enterprise big data analytics by
    delivering scalable high availability with disaster recovery capabilities. Data is stored in the
    Common Data Model format, which provides semantic consistency across apps and deployments.
    The Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse provides these features:
      Linking or unlinking the environment to Azure Synapse Analytics and/or Azure Data Lake
      Storage Gen2 in your Azure subscription.
      Continuous replication of tables to Azure Synapse Analytics and/or Azure Data Lake Storage
      Gen2 in your Azure subscription.
      Replication of both standard and custom tables as well as create, update, and delete (CUD)
      transactions.
      Fewer clicks to process, transform, and visualize your data in Azure Synapse Analytics.
        Serverless data lake exploration, data integration, and big data processing in Azure Synapse
        Analytics.
        Facilitated metadata discovery and interoperability between data producers and consumers
        such as Apache Spark, Power BI, Azure Data Factory, Azure Databricks, and Azure Machine
        Learning.
     The Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service supports initial and incremental writes for table
     data and metadata. Any data or metadata changes in Dataverse are automatically pushed to the
     Azure Synapse metastore and Azure Data Lake, depending on the configuration, without any
     additional action. This is a push, rather than pull, operation. Changes are pushed to the
     destination without you needing to set up refresh intervals.
     Both standard and custom tables can be exported. Notice that the change tracking table attribute
     in Dataverse is used to keep the data synchronized in an efficient manner by detecting what data
     has changed since it was initially extracted or last synchronized.
     All create, update, and delete operations are exported from Dataverse to the data lake. For
     example, when a user deletes an Account table row in Dataverse, the transaction is replicated in
     the destination location.
     Rapidly analyze your Dataverse data in Azure
     Synapse Analytics
     Azure Synapse Analytics is a limitless analytics service that brings together data integration,
     enterprise data warehousing, and big data analytics. It gives you the freedom to query data on
     your terms, using either serverless or dedicated resources—at scale. It also allows you to build
     analytics solutions on top of the Apache Spark engine. With Azure Synapse you can ingest,
     explore, prepare, manage, and serve data for immediate business intelligence and machine
     learning needs all from a single service.
     Flexibly analyze your Dataverse data with Azure Data
     Lake Storage Gen2
     Azure Data Lake is a storage solution that allows you to process data on demand, scale instantly,
     and only pay per job. It provides enterprise-grade security, auditing and support. Azure Data Lake
     is a great landing page for your Dataverse data before being utilized in another service or
     application. Each business is different and has different scenarios; Azure Data Lake gives you the
     flexibility to customize consumption and transition your data to other destinations.
     See also
     Configure Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse with your Azure Synapse Workspace
     Configure Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse with Azure Data Lake
     Blog: Announcing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
     Blog: Exporting CDS data to Azure Data Lake
      Last updated on 04/27/2026
     Create an Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
     with your Azure Synapse Workspace
     You can use the Azure Synapse Link to connect your Microsoft Dataverse data to Azure Synapse
     Analytics to explore your data and accelerate time to insight. This article shows you how to
     perform the following tasks:
       1. Connect your Dataverse data to your Azure Synapse Analytics workspace with the Azure
        Synapse Link service.
       2. Manage Dataverse tables included in the Azure Synapse Link.
       3. Monitor your Azure Synapse Link.
       4. Unlink your Azure Synapse Link.
       5. Relink your Azure Synapse Link.
       6. View your data in Azure Synapse Analytics.
      ７ Note
      Azure Synapse Link for Microsoft Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The
      service was renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data to Azure Data Lake
      as well as Azure Synapse Analytics.
      In Power Apps, Azure Synapse Link is now part of the Link data page and appears under
      Other Links. Your existing links keep running with no migration or relink required.
      To create a new Azure Synapse Link, go to Link data and select Other Links > + New link.
      You can no longer create an Azure Synapse Link from the Tables > Analyze menu.
     Prerequisites
        Dataverse: You must have the Dataverse system administrator security role.
        The tables you want to export via Azure Synapse Link must have the Track changes property
        enabled. More information: Advanced options
        The Azure Synapse Workspace that you link with can't have data exfiltration protection
        enabled. More information: Create a workspace with data exfiltration protection enabled
     Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 requirements
    You must have an Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account and the following roles:
      Owner
      Storage Blob Data Contributor
      Storage Blob Data Owner
    Owner role requirement: The Owner role is required because adding the managed identity of the
    Azure Synapse Link service to the storage account is a privileged operation. This managed
    identity enables the service to perform synchronization from Dataverse to Synapse. Currently, the
    Owner role is required and custom roles with similar privileges aren't supported for this step.
    Privileges for managed identity:
      Owner and Storage Account Contributor: Required only during first-time setup to create
      the filesystem in the storage account and are assigned on the storage account. After the
      setup, these privileges can be removed without impacting sync operations.
      Storage Blob Data Contributor: Required for normal blob operations during regular sync.
      Storage Blob Data Owner: Currently required for managing both data and access
      permissions in scenarios involving Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2.
    Your storage account must enable Hierarchical namespace for both initial setup and delta sync.
    Allow storage account key access is required only for the initial setup because the service uses
    Shared Key authorization to perform privileged operations such as creating the filesystem and
    establishing the link before switching to managed identity authentication. After setup, key-based
    access is no longer needed.
    Your storage account must have permitted scope for copy operations set to From any storage
    account.
      Synapse workspace: You must have a Synapse workspace and the Synapse Administrator
      role access within the Synapse Studio. The Synapse workspace must be in the same region
      as your Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account. The storage account must be added as a
      linked service within the Synapse Studio. To create a Synapse workspace, go to Creating a
      Synapse workspace.
     ７ Note
       The storage account and Synapse workspace must be created in the same Microsoft
       Entra tenant as your Power Apps tenant.
                To set Enabled from selected virtual networks and IP addresses for linked storage
                account and workspace, you must create an Azure Synapse Link with managed
                identities. More information: Use managed identities for Azure with your Azure data
                lake storage (without managed identities set up, you must enable public network
                access for Azure resources for both initial setup and delta sync.)
                Synapse workspaces featuring managed private endpoints, data exfiltration protection,
                or managed virtual networks aren't supported.
                You must have Reader role access to the resource group with the storage account and
                Synapse workspace.
                When you add multiple users to the synapse workspace, they must have the Synapse
                Administrator role access within the Synapse Studio and the Storage Blob Data
                Contributor role on the Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account.
                The creation of Synapse Link profiles under a single DV environment is limited to a
                maximum of 10.
        Connect Dataverse to Synapse workspace
           1. Sign in to Power Apps    and select your preferred environment.
           2. On the left navigation pane, select Link data, and then select Other Links. Existing Azure
             Synapse Links appear in this section. If Link data isn't visible in the side pane, select …More
             and choose Discover all, then select Link data in the Data Management section.
           3. On the command bar, select + New link, and then select Azure Synapse.
           4. Select the Connect to your Azure Synapse workspace option.
           5. Select the Subscription, Resource group, Workspace name, and Storage account. Ensure
             that the Synapse workspace and storage account meet the requirements specified in the
             Prerequisites section. Select Next.
       ７ Note
       As part of linking the environment to a data lake, you grant the Azure Synapse Link
       service access to your storage account. Ensure that you followed the prerequisites of
       creating and configuring the Azure data lake storage account, and granting yourself an
       owner role on the storage account. Additionally, you grant the Power Platform
       Dataflows service access to your storage account. More information: Self-service data
       prep with dataflows.
     6. Choose the tables you want to export either by selecting them one by one or by entering a
      comma separated list of tables in the search box, and then select Save. Only tables with the
      Track changes property enabled can be exported. More information: Advanced options.
     You can follow the steps above to create a link from one environment to multiple Azure Synapse
     Analytics workspaces and Azure data lakes in your Azure subscription by adding an Azure data
     lake as a linked service on a Synapse workspace. Similarly, you could create a link from multiple
     environments to the same Azure Synapse Analytics workspace and Azure data lake, all within the
     same tenant.
      ７ Note
      The Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse service is seamlessly integrated into the Power
      Platform as an out-of-the-box feature. It meets the security and governance standards set
      for the Power Platform data storage and governance. More information: Data storage and
      governance
      The data exported by Azure Synapse Link service is encrypted at transit using Transport
      Layer Security(TLS) 1.2 or higher and encrypted at rest in Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2.
      Additionally, transient data in the blob storage is also encrypted at rest. Encryption in Azure
      Data Lake Storage Gen2 helps you protect your data, implement enterprise security policies,
      and meet regulatory compliance requirements. More information: Azure Data Encryption-
      at-Rest More information: Configure Azure Storage firewalls and virtual networks
     Manage table data to the Synapse workspace
     After you set up the Azure Synapse Link, you can manage the tables that are exported in one of
     two ways:
        In Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) go to Link data > Other Links, and then select
        Manage tables on the command bar to add or remove one or more linked tables.
        On the Power Apps maker portal Tables area, select … next to a table, and then select the
        linked data lake where you want to export table data.
     Monitor your Azure Synapse Link
     After you set up the Azure Synapse Link, you can monitor the Azure Synapse Link on the Tables
     tab.
        There will be a list of tables that are a part of the selected Azure Synapse Link.
        There are different stages the sync status circulates through. NotStarted indicates that the
        table is waiting to be synced. Once the table initial sync is Completed, there's a post
        processing stage where incremental updates won't take place. This might take several hours
        depending on the size of your data. As the incremental updates start taking place, the date
        for the last sync will be regularly updated.
        The Count column shows the number rows written. When Append only is set to No, this is
        the total number of records. When Append Only is set to Yes, this is the total number of
        changes.
        The Append only and Partition strategy columns show the usage of different advanced
        configurations.
     Unlinking an Azure Synapse Link
      1. Select the desired Azure Synapse Link to unlink.
      2. Select Unlink from the command bar.
      3. To delete both the data lake file system as well as the Synapse Database, type the link name
        to confirm.
      4. Select Yes, and allow a few minutes for everything to be unlinked and deleted.
      ） Important
      The custom database objects you create within the Azure Synapse Link database are deleted
      once the unlink is completed.
      You need to implement your own version control for your custom database objects scripts to
      ensure you have a backup.
     Relinking an Azure Synapse Link
     If you deleted the file system when unlinking, follow the steps above to relink the same Synapse
     workspace and data lake. If you didn't delete the file system when unlinking, you must clear the
     data to relink:
      1. Navigate the Azure Synapse Analytics.
      2. Select the ... for the unlinked database and select New notebook > Empty notebook.
      3. Attach the notebook to an Apache Spark pool by selecting a pool from the drop-down
        menu. If you don't have an Apache Spark pool, select Manage pools to create one.
      4. Enter the following script, replace <DATABASE_NAME> with the name of the database to
        unlink, and run the notebook.
      SQL
          %%sql
          DROP DATABASE <DATABASE_NAME> CASCADE
      5. After running the notebook, refresh the database list from the left panel. If the database still
        exists, try right clicking on the database and selecting Delete.
      6. Navigate to Power Apps, and relink the Synapse workspace and data lake.
     Access near real-time data and read-only snapshot data
     After creating an Azure Synapse Link, two versions of the table data will be synchronized in Azure
     Synapse Analytics and/or Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 in your Azure subscription by default to
     ensure you can reliably consume updated data in the lake at any given time:
      Near real-time data: Provides a copy of data synchronized from Dataverse via Azure
      Synapse Link in an efficient manner by detecting what data has changed since it was initially
      extracted or last synchronized.
      Snapshot data: Provides a read-only copy of near real-time data that is updated at regular
      intervals (in this case every hour).
     ７ Note
       Near real-time sync performance depends on several factors including the initial data
       load size, data churn rate, and the volume of changes. In situations with high
       transaction volumes, such as processes in Finance and Operations apps generating
       millions of records in a short time, or processes like the master planning feature
       included with Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management that delete and re-create large
       volumes of records. Synapse Link must synchronize all changes including deletes. In
       these high-volume scenarios, data availability in near real-time can't be guaranteed. 
       To create read-only snapshot data, ensure that the Permitted scope for copy
       operations setting is configured to From any storage account. More information:
       Configure the permitted scope for copy operations
     1. Select the desired Azure Synapse Link, and then select the Go to Azure Synapse Analytics
      workspace from the top panel.
     2. Expand Lake Databases from the left panel, select dataverse-environmentName-
      organizationUniqueName, and then expand Tables.
    All Near Real-Time Data Tables are listed and available for analysis with the naming convention
    DataverseTableName. All Snapshot Data Tables are listed and available for analysis with the
    naming convention DataverseTableName_partitioned.
    See also
    Configure Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse with your Azure Data Lake
     Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse Advanced Configuration
     Azure Synapse Link FAQ
     Blog: Announcing Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
      Last updated on 07/20/2026
     Create an Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse
     with Azure Data Lake
     You can use the Azure Synapse Link to connect your Microsoft Dataverse data to Azure Data Lake
     Storage Gen2 to enable various analytics scenarios. This article shows you how to perform the
     following tasks:
       1. Connect your Dataverse data to your Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account with the Azure
        Synapse Link service.
       2. Manage Dataverse tables included in the Azure Synapse Link.
       3. Monitor your Azure Synapse Link.
       4. Unlink your Azure Synapse Link.
       5. Relink your Azure Synapse Link.
       6. View your data in Azure Data Lake and understand the file structure.
      ７ Note
      Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse was formerly known as Export to data lake. The service was
      renamed effective May 2021 and will continue to export data to Azure Data Lake as well as
      Azure Synapse Analytics.
      In Power Apps, Azure Synapse Link is now part of the Link data page and appears under
      Other Links. Your existing links keep running with no migration or relink required.
      To create a new Azure Synapse Link, go to Link data and select Other Links > + New link.
      Azure Synapse Link creation is no longer available from the Tables > Analyze menu.
     Prerequisites
        Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2: You must have an Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 account
        and Owner and Storage Blob Data Contributor role access. Your storage account must
        enable Hierarchical namespace for both initial setup and delta sync. Allow storage account
        key access is required only for the initial setup. Your storage account must have Permitted
        scope for copy operations set to From any storage account.
      ７ Note
                The storage account must be created in the same Microsoft Entra tenant as your Power
                Apps tenant.
                To set Enabled from selected virtual networks and IP addresses for linked storage
                account to grant access from selected IP addresses, you must create an Azure Synapse
                Link with managed identities.Use managed identities for Azure with your Azure data
                lake storage (without managed identities set up, you must enable public network
                access for Azure resources for both initial setup and delta sync.)
                We strongly recommend that you enable the soft delete feature on the storage
                account selected for this purpose. Enabling soft delete enables you to recover from
                accidental data deletes faster.
                You must have Reader role access to the resource group with the storage account.
                To link the environment to Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2, you must have the
                Dataverse system administrator security role.
                Only tables that have change tracking enabled can be exported.
                The creation of Azure Synapse Link profiles under a single Dataverse environment is
                limited to a maximum of 10.
        Connect Dataverse to Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
           1. Sign in to Power Apps    and select your preferred environment.
           2. On the left navigation pane, select Link data, and then select Other Links. Existing Azure
             Synapse links appear in this section. If Link data isn't visible in the side panel, select …More
             and select Discover all. Link data is in the Data Management section.
           3. On the command bar, select + New link to data lake.
           4. Select the Subscription, Resource group, and Storage account. Ensure that storage account
             meets the requirements specified in the Prerequisites section. Select Next.
                ７ Note
                As part of linking the environment to a data lake, you grant the Azure Synapse Link
                service access to your storage account. Ensure that you followed the prerequisites of
                creating and configuring the Azure data lake storage account, and granting yourself an
                owner role on the storage account. Additionally, you grant the Power Platform
