              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Show or hide model-driven app form
       elements
       Article • 04/08/2022
       Several types of form elements have the option to be shown or hidden at app runtime.
       Tabs, sections, columns, iFrames, and web resources all provide this option. You can
       change the default setting to view a form element in the form designer by selecting the
       Hide property.
       Using form scripts or business rules, the visibility of these elements can be controlled to
       create a dynamic form to provide a user interface that adapts to conditions in the form.
        ） Important
        Hiding form elements is not a recommended way to enforce security. There are
        several ways people can view all the elements and data in the form when elements
        are hidden.
        Disabling, hiding, or locking a column, control, or form component using the form
        designer, manually in the form XML, or using a Client API only works to control
        data access in a Unified Interface or legacy web client app. It doesn’t strictly enforce
         data access by itself in the apps. Moreover, it doesn’t control data access using
         other ways to connect to Microsoft Dataverse such as using the Web service or a
         canvas app. It is also important to know that the app will not display an error
         message or block a save if a required column is null and has been disabled. This
         ensures that users are never blocked from completing a task. To control access, see
         Set security roles for a form or use Field-level security.
       Rather than designing forms that depend on scripts to control visibility of options,
       consider whether a business process flow, a dialog, or switching to a different form may
       be better suited to meet your requirements. If you do use scripts, make sure that any
       element that might be hidden is hidden by default. Only show it with scripts when your
       logic calls for it. This way it will not be displayed in presentations that do not support
       scripts.
       In Unified Interface, for sections where columns don’t span more than one column,
       hiding a column in the section moves the column below up on the form. If a column
       spans more than two columns in a section, hiding a column in the section that has a
       control across from it will not move the column below it up on the form. You will see
       additional white space where the hidden column is in the section.
       Client API methods for controlling the visibility
       of form elements
       For information about how to change the form element show or hide status for the
       header, command bar, and tabs at app runtime, see these client API reference articles:
          formContext.ui.headerSection item (Client API reference)
          formContext.ui.tabs (Client API reference)
       Next steps
       Overview of the form editor interface
       Use the model-driven app main form
       and its components
       Article • 03/04/2025
       Forms in model-driven apps provide the primary means by which users can update
       records. Forms associated with a table can be accessed via the table designer.
       The most versatile form type of the new form is Main. However, in addition to main
       forms, app makers can build quick create, quick view, or card forms. Learn more about
       other types of forms
       This article explains how to edit a main form, and add or change various elements of the
       form.
       Here's an example of a main form within an app. It has several tabs, in addition to
       exposing the timeline component and a quick view form providing more details
       associated with the primary contact.
       Open the form designer
       To edit a form, such as to add or change elements, use the form designer. The form
       designer lets a maker edit forms for all model-driven apps.
       Follow the procedures given below to access the form designer.
               ７ Note
               If you create any new solution components in the process of editing the form, the
               names of the components use the solution publisher customization prefix for the
               default solution and these components are only be included in the default
               solution. If you want any new solution components to be included in a specific
               unmanaged solution, open the form designer through that unmanaged solution.
               This helps with the application management lifecycle.
             Access the form designer for an unmanaged solution
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel
                  pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
                3. Open the unmanaged solution you want to work with. The solution type, managed
                  or unmanaged, is displayed in the Managed externally? column.
                4. In the list of components, locate the table with the form you want to edit. If the
                  table isn’t there, you need to add it.
             Add a table to an unmanaged solution
                1. With the unmanaged solution opened, on the command bar select Add Existing
                  and then select Table.
                2. All the available tables are listed. Select the table, and then select Next.
                3. Select the option that's most appropriate, and then select Add:
                       For a custom table, select Include all components.
                       For a standard table choose Select components, and then browse to and
                       select the main form you want to customize, and then select Add.
                4. The table is added to the solution. In the list of components, open the table, select
                  the Forms area, and then open form of type Main.
                5. In the form designer, make the changes you want.
                6. Save the form.
             Publish the changes for use in the app
             Certain customizations that make changes to the user interface require that they be
             published before people can use them in the application. To publish your customization,
             on the solution Objects area command bar, select Publish all customizations.
             Access the form designer through the default solution
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane.
                3. Select the table that you want, and then select the Forms area.
                4. In the list of forms, open the form of type Main.
               ７ Note
               If you have made other changes to the app, publish them using the app level
               publish option. Go to Validate and publish an app using the app designer for
               more information.
             Form designer user interface
             To understand in detail the form designer user interface, go to Overview of the model-
             driven form designer.
             Form properties
             To learn more about the form properties, go to Form properties.
             Visibility options
             Several types of form elements have the option to be shown or hidden by default. Tabs,
             sections, and columns all provide this option. When you use form scripts or business
             rules, the visibility of these elements can be controlled to create a dynamic form to
             provide a user interface that adapts to conditions in the form.
               ７ Note
               Hiding form elements isn't a recommended way to enforce security. There are
               several ways people can view all the elements and data in the form when elements
               are hidden. To learn more, go to Show or hide form elements.
       Tab properties
       In the body of a form, tabs provide horizontal separation. Tabs have a label that can be
       displayed. If the label is displayed, tabs can be expanded or collapsed to show or hide
       their content by choosing the label. To know in detail about the tab properties, go to
       Configure tabs on a form.
       Section properties
       A section in a form occupies the space available in a tab column. Sections have a label
       that can be displayed and a line might be shown below the label. To know in detail
       about the section properties, go to Configure sections on a form.
       Timeline
       The timeline shows related activities for a specific table.
       The types of activities supported are task, appointment, phone call, email, social activity,
       and custom activity.
       The timeline also shows notes and, system, and user posts. Timelines show those
       activities that have the Regarding column set to the table you’re viewing. For notes, the
       Regarding column isn’t shown to the user; It's implicit when created from the timeline.
       Each activity that’s shown in the timeline, has the same quick actions that are available
       on the activity’s command bar.
       Common column properties
       To know in detail about the common column properties, go to Configure column
       properties on a form.
       Special column properties
       All columns have the properties listed in Common column properties - legacy, but
       certain columns have additional properties. To know more, go to Special Column
       Properties - legacy.
       Subgrid properties
       You can configure a subgrid on a form to display a list of rows or a chart. To know in
       detail about the subgrid properties, go to Add and configure a subgrid component on a
       form.
       Quick view control properties
       A quick view control on a form displays data from a row that is selected in a lookup on
       the form. To explore the quick view control properties, go to Add and configure a quick
       view component on a form.
       Web resource properties
       You can add or edit web resources on a form to make it more appealing or useful to app
       users. Form enabled web resources are images or HTML files. These items are under
       found on the Components tab under Display in the form designer.
       External website
       You can add website content as an inline frame (iframe) to a form to integrate content
       from another website within the form. More information: Add an iframe to a model-
       driven app main form
       Edit navigation
       Navigation within the form allows people to view lists of related rows. Each table
       relationship has properties to control whether it should be shown. More information:
       Table relationships advanced options
       Any table relationships that are configured to display can be overridden within the form
       editor.
       For step-by-step instructions, go to Add form navigation for related tables.
       To enable editing navigation, you must first select Navigation from the Select group on
       the Home tab.
       In the Relationship Explorer, you can filter by 1:N (one-to-many) or N:N (many-to-many)
       relationships, or view all available relationships. The Only show unused relationships
       checkbox is disabled and selected. So you can only add each relationship one time.
              To add a relationship from the Relationship Explorer just double-click it and it will be
              added below the currently selected relationship in the navigation area. Double-click a
              relationship in the navigation area and you can change the label on the Display tab. On
              the Name tab, you can see information about the relationship. Use the Edit button to
              open the definition of the table.
              There are five groups in the navigation area. You can drag them to reposition them and
              double-click them to change the label, but you can’t remove them. These groups are
              displayed only when there's something in them. If you don’t want a group to appear,
              just don’t add anything to it.
              Configure event handlers
              An event handler consists of a reference to a JavaScript web resource and a function
              defined within that web resource that will execute when the event occurs. To know more
              about configuring event handlers, go to Configure event handlers.
              Next steps
              Create and design forms
              Create and edit quick create forms
              Create and edit quick view forms
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Add an iframe to a model-driven app
       main form
       Article • 03/04/2025
       With the external website component, you can add an inline frame (iframe) to a form to
       integrate content from another website within the form.
        1. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane, open the solution you want, and then
         open the table that you want to edit. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select
         …More and then select the item you want.
        2. Select Forms from the Data experiences area.
        3. In the list of forms, open a form of type Main.
        4. In the form designer, select the section of the canvas where you want to add the
         iframe.
        5. On the Components left pane, expand Display, select External website, enter the
         Site URL, and then select Done.
                                                                                     ﾉ
                                                                                        Expand table
                   Tab            Property              Description
                   Display        Label                 Required: A label to display for the iframe.
                   options
                   Display        Name                  Required: A unique name for the iframe. The
                   options                              name can contain only alphanumeric characters
                                                        and underscores.
                   Display        Hide label            Select if you want the label hidden.
                   options
                   Display        Hide                  You can hide the iframe so that it can be made
                   options                              visible by using scripts. More information: Visibility
                                                        options
                   Display        URL                   Required: The URL for the page to display in the
                   options                              iframe.
                   Formatting     Column width          When the section containing the iframe has more
                                                        than one column, you can set the column to
                                                        occupy up to the number of columns that the
                                                        section has.
                   Tab            Property              Description
                   Formatting     Component height      You can control the height of the iframe by
                                                        specifying a number of rows the control occupies.
                   Formatting     Use all available     Instead of setting the height by a number of rows,
                                  vertical space        you can allow the iframe height to expand to
                                                        available space.
                   Formatting     Scrolling             You have three options for scrolling behavior:
                                                        - As Necessary: Display scrollbars when the size of
                                                        the iframe is larger than the available space.
                                                        - Always: Always display scrollbars.
                                                        - Never: Never display scrollbars.
                   Formatting     Display border        Display a border around the iframe.
                   Dependencies   Table column          An iframe might interact with columns in the form
                                  dependencies          using script. If a column is removed from the form
                                                        the script in the iframe might break. Add any
                                                        columns referenced by scripts in the iframes to the
                                                        Table column dependencies so that they can't be
                                                        removed accidentally.
                   Advanced       Restrict cross-frame  It's considered a security risk allowing pages from
                                  scripting, where      a different web site to interact with the app using
                                  supported             scripts. Use this option to restrict cross frame
                                                        scripting for pages you don't have control over.
                   Advanced       Pass row object-type  Data about the organization, user, and the record
                                  code and unique       can be passed to the iframe. More information:
                                  identifiers as        Pass parameters to iframes
                                  parameters
                6. Save and Publish the form.
               ７ Note
                    If the web page doesn't appear in the iframe, it might be because the website
                    doesn't allow iframe rendering. When this occurs, the message URL refused to
                    connect is displayed in the iframe at runtime.
                    Forms aren't designed to be displayed within an iframe.
                    Authentication inside an iframe, either through a redirection or popups, isn't
                    supported on mobile.
             Pass parameters to iframes
             Information about the row can be passed by enabling the Pass row object-type code
             and unique identifiers as parameters option. The values passed are:
                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                       Expand table
              Parameter   Description
              orglcid     The organization default language LCID.
              orgname     The name of the organization.
              userlcid    The user's preferred language LCID
              type        The table type code. This value can be different for custom tables in different
                          organizations. Use typename instead.
              typename    The table type name.
              id          The ID value of the row. this parameter has no value until the table row is saved.
             Add an iframe using the classic form designer
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane, and then open the table that you want. If
                  the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you
                  want.
                3. Select the Forms area.
                4. In the list of forms, open a form of type Main.
                5. Select Switch to classic to edit the form in the classic form designer.
                6. On the Insert tab, select IFRAME to view iframe properties.
                                                                                          ﾉ
                                                                                              Expand table
               Tab             Property                Description
               General         Name                    Required: A unique name for the iframe. The name can
                                                       contain only alphanumeric characters and underscores.
                               URL                     Required: The URL for the page to display in the iframe.
                               Pass row object-type    Data about the organization, user, and the row can be
                               code and unique         passed to the iframe. More information: Pass
                               identifiers as          parameters to iframes
                               parameters
                               Label                   Required: A label to display for the iframe.
                               Display label on the    Whether the label should be displayed.
                               Form
                               Restrict cross-frame    It's considered a security risk allowing pages from a
                               scripting, where        different web site to interact with the Dynamics 365
                               supported               application using scripts. Use this option to restrict
                                                       cross frame scripting for pages you don't have control
                Tab              Property                  Description
                                                           over.
                                 Visible by default        Showing the iframe is optional and can be controlled
                                                           using scripts. More information: Visibility options
                                 Enable for mobile         Select the checkbox to enable the iframe for mobile.
                Formatting       Select the number of      When the section containing the iframe has more than
                                 columns the control       one column, you can set the column to occupy up to
                                 occupies                  the number of columns that the section has.
                                 Select the number of      You can control the height of the iframe by specifying a
                                 rows the control          number of rows the control occupies.
                                 occupies
                                 Automatically expand      Instead of setting the height by a number of rows, you
                                 to use available space    can allow the iframe height to expand to available
                                                           space.
                                 Select the scrolling      You have three options:
                                 type for the iFrame
                                                           - As Necessary: Show scrollbars when the size of the
                                                           iframe is larger than the available space.
                                                           - Always: Always show scrollbars.
                                                           - Never: Never show scrollbars.
                                 Display border            Display a border around the iframe.
                Dependencies     Dependent columns         An iframe might interact with columns in the form
                                                           using script. If a column is removed from the form the
                                                           script in the iframe might break. Add any columns
                                                           referenced by scripts in the iframes to the Dependent
                                                           columns so that they can't be removed accidentally.
               Next steps
               Use the Main form and its components
               Feedback
               Was this page helpful?    Yes        No
               Provide product feedback
        Design productive main forms in model-
        driven apps
        Article • 04/08/2022
        Building experiences where tasks can be completed quickly and effectively is crucial to
        user satisfaction.
        Model-driven apps provide many options to build good user experiences, including:
            Application-level options.
            Site map organization options.
            Many form-creation options.
        This article shows how to design highly efficient and productive forms in a model-driven
        app, including how to work with:
            Main forms.
            Main form dialogs.
            Form component controls.
            Quick create forms.
            Quick view forms.
        Form layout and design are important to building better forms. However, it's also
        important to build forms that load quickly and allow for fast navigation within the form
        and across tabs.
        We also recommend an understanding of best practices for optimizing form
        performance and how to make forms load fast in your model-driven app. More
        information: Design forms for performance in model-driven apps
        Working with main forms
        Main forms are used in a model-driven app when working with and editing a specific
        record's data for a table to ensure that users interacting with that record stay within the
        constraints of the table structure.
        Building around table data
        A form allows an app maker to build around the table data, and often requires that you
        work with and interact with related records from other tables. One important
        consideration is how a model-driven form is bound to data. The out-of-the-box controls
       for a form are bound to fields from the table. These controls allow rapid development of
       a form for creating and editing data, but without more customization they aren't as
       flexible when using a form for multiple tasks that need user input, or where additional
       action is required before saving information.
       Use of related data
       One of the strengths of model-driven forms is the ease of use with standard (out-of-
       the-box) controls like lookups, subgrids, and reference panels to quickly view or edit
       related records. Forms also support custom Power Apps component framework controls
       to extend functionality beyond the standard controls. Forms primarily support child or
       secondary data relationships for a record; they don't easily support tertiary or higher-
       order relationships. For example, if there is an account record that has a one-to-one or
       one-to-many relationship with contacts, interactions with both the parent and child data
       can be quickly added with a form by using lookups that interact with other forms,
       including a main form dialog or embedded forms like a quick view or form component
       control. Each of these form types will be covered in more detail later in this article.
       Working with related data requires configuration, including using a main form dialog to
       work with related records of the main form dialog or using a custom canvas page.
       Multiple-entity forms can be created by using main form dialogs or form component
       controls. However, a main form doesn't directly support tertiary-related records on the
       main form.
       Understanding the main form layout
       The following image shows the layout of a Unified Interface application.
            Visual elements that are not a part of the form
                 The application header is part of the overall page structure of a model-driven app.
                 The app header contains the application name and app-level actions, which
                 include search, help, assistance, quick create forms, settings (personal and app
                 level for admins), and so on.
                 The application site map contains navigation across the application to pages that
                 are included in your application. The navigation experience provided by the site
                 map offers a quick way to access other areas of your application.
                 The form command bar is also not part of the main form. It can be configured and
                 set up by using the Ribbon Workbench   community plug-in for XrmToolBox  .
                 Navigation and interaction on the form can be customized. Several out-of-the-box
                 options include saving, creating a new record, sharing, merging, editing multiple
                 records, and so on.
                   ７ Note
                   Resources created by the community aren't supported by Microsoft. If you
                   have questions or issues with community resources, contact the publisher of
                   the resource.
            Visual elements that are a part of the form
                 The form header is part of the form. It includes the table and record name, the
                 ability to switch to additional forms for the table, four read-only fields of the
          record, and the tabs included on the form. Forms only appear in the form selector
          if they've been enabled and added to the app. More information: Create and
          design model-driven app forms.
          Form headers also have a mode where more than four fields can be added and
          provide a simple navigation to edit the fields in the header and any additional field
          you want a user to easily access from the form header. Additional tabs should be
          used to access information that isn't primary to the task at hand, or to focus the
          user on data or information that's specific to a given task but isn't primary to the
          job. Information that's necessary and is primary to working with data should be on
          the first tab and should not be hidden.
          The form body is the area on the form that should be used to interact with data of
          the record and any related records that are essential to completing a task. We
          recommend that you limit the data to the top tasks that need to be done on the
          first tab and move secondary tasks to additional tabs. building forms based on
          specific business needs and roles should also be considered when designing your
          application.
       If some data is rarely used you should consider building another form that can be
       accessed when a user needs to reference that data or information.
        ） Important
        Form footers are deprecated with the 2021 Release Wave 2 (August 2021 Preview /
        October 2021 GA). Remove any controls you have added out of the footer.
       Example scenario of productive form design
       The following scenario demonstrates the best use of a model-driven main form over
       data that uses the available controls.
       Imagine a scenario where a salesperson needs to maintain data for an account that also
       has the following form components:
          A primary contact (lookup).
          Additional contacts (subgrid).
          A reference panel where a user can select to see lists of related records with access
          to read-only views (quick view) in the reference panel. The reference panel includes
          a timeline control that's used to quickly access and create activities for that record.
       This form is in regular use, so it is worth spending time on the layout to ensure it is
       simple and efficient to operate.
      Account data
      The first section on the form contains the fields that are used to manage the data and
      information for that record. Here, a user can quickly review and edit information they
      use throughout their workday. Points to note:
        Required fields and most-used fields are at the top of this section.
        A quick view form of the primary contact is added at the top so users can quickly
        view and use the information to contact the individual who's important for their
        daily tasks.
      Related contacts with a subgrid
      To the right of the account information section is the contact table subgrid. It shows all
      the contact records that are related to the main record. This allows the user speedy
      interaction with the contact record related to the account.
      Quick access to multiple related records with the
      reference panel
      Next to the contact subgrid is the reference panel. This control can give even further
      access to related records that go beyond just the contacts. A subgrid helps drive data
      density and efficiencies when working across all related records of the main form. In this
      example, the reference panel includes contacts, opportunities, leads, and products. One
      limitation of the reference panel is that it only provides read-only views of records. It
      doesn't support a main form of a related record like a main form dialog or a form
      component does. Reference panels are best used when you want to quickly view
      information of a related record.
      Currently, you add a reference panel control by using the classic form designer. On the
      Insert tab, expand Sections, and then select Reference panel.
      Account activities with the timeline control
       Below the contacts subgrid is the activities timeline wall. The timeline control allows a
       user to quickly view recent information about activities that have an activity record
       associated to the account. Available activities found in a timeline are emails, phone calls,
       notes, appointments, and tasks. Users can also send new emails, log new phone calls,
       and add notes quickly and easily from the control. More information: Set up the timeline
       control
       Working with data on a main form best
       practices
          If additional requirements are added to data on the form that isn't configured on
          the table, it's important to make sure that the data that's required is always visible
          and editable—for example, a required field for a user that's based on a business
          rule. If a field is required and made read-only, it will block users from completing
          tasks and can create frustration and dissatisfaction. Although hidden and read-only
          components are supported by the Power Apps platform, it's important to know
          that if a user saves data on a form that includes a required field that isn't editable,
          the save will be processed. This ensures that a user is never blocked from
          completing a task based on a bad design pattern.
          Hidden fields can be used like read-only fields and are handy when building data-
          dense forms. However, the same caution applies as when working with required
          fields: A required field may not be hidden if it can be null when editing a record.
          Business rules or events can be used to hide or show fields on a form; however, the
          form will behave the same as a read-only field when it's being saved. Model-driven
          forms will always allow for the save if a field is required but hidden on the form.
          If data needs to always be available, regardless of the tab a user is on, it's vital to
          add that data to the header. It's important to know that the high-density headers
          in Unified Interface will only display up to four read-only fields. However, you can
          use the high-density headers with a flyout to add additional fields that also allow
          users to edit fields. This streamlines the experience to quickly access and edit
          information that you always want to make available without multiple clicks or
          additional navigation.
       Building multiple-entity forms
       The previous section provided good examples of how to work with data that's directly
       related to a record. However, what can drive even further efficiencies is working with
       related data directly from the main form, without navigating away. This keeps the user in
       context, and reduces friction and improves satisfaction by streamlining experiences
       using a main form dialog or a form component control.
       The following sections walk through several scenarios that show how to build highly
       performant multiple-entity forms. The goal is to streamline user experiences that reduce
       clicks and unnecessary navigation, and speed up daily tasks that often require a user to
       interact with related records on a main form. Form components used for efficiency
       described here include:
          Main form dialog.
          Main form component control.
          Quick create form.
          Quick view form.
       Using a main form dialog
       Using a main form dialog is powerful when you need to have users access, and—more
       importantly—interact with, all the information of a related record. This includes when
       users need to work with a business process flow, access all the tabs, or access all the
       related records on the form. This is important when there are business processes that
       drive requirements on a related record that need to be followed to ensure data integrity.
        Users need access to timeline activities or related records of the child record without
        additional navigation. Note that a main form dialog can be configured directly from the
        lookup control and can be used on the command bars or with JavaScript by using the
        navigateTo client API. The dialog can be positioned on the left, middle, or right side of
        the page as a modal dialog overlay. More information: Open main form in a dialog
        using client API
        In this example, a user needs to access the primary contact record, update the phone
        number, add a note in the activities timeline, and create a new appointment from the
        contact form. To streamline this experience by reducing clicks and unnecessary
        navigation, the lookup control is configured to open the contact main form as a dialog.
        This example shows how the main form dialog can use quick create forms from the
        related record, incorporate duplicate records, and allow the user to fully interact with
        data on the related record.
        Using the form component control
        Often you only need to edit information on a related record that doesn't require the
        user to interact with the entire form and doesn't require an additional business process
        flow, but you don't want to give users the ability to navigate to the related form. To
        accomplish this scenario and streamline managing data inline on the main form, you can
        use a form component control. The form component control provides the user with
        access to the related record, including all the sections, controls, and fields on the related
        record form. Form components can also be used for specific actions with forms
        designed for only that task. An example of this is the Microsoft Dynamics Field Service
        Mobile experience. Form components are used to manage work orders and tasks related
        to those work orders in a streamlined and more efficient process.
      Note that a form component control will use any form that you've created for that
      record and it will honor any event, including loading a form, saving data, or on change
      information. It will also honor any business rules and actions on the form, including
      opening a main form dialog from a lookup (if you've configured the form to work in that
      manner). It will also include any duplicate detection rules and parent/child relationships
      when working with data in the related record form component. The form control
      component promotes unsaved changes to the main form, and notifies users when a
      field is required and if there are data entry errors on the related form component. More
      information: Edit related table records directly from another table’s main form
      In this example, a user is editing the primary contact information directly on the account
      main form and scrolls down the form to create a new appointment for the primary
      contact without leaving the account form.
      Using quick create forms
      There will be times when you want to create an experience where users can quickly
      create records without additional navigation or clicks. A quick create form is a good
      solution for this. It can be used in multiple scenarios, which include creating
      appointments from an activity timeline wall, creating a contact from a lookup if a main
      form dialog isn't needed, or quickly creating a record—like an account or contact that
      doesn't require additional relationships for data integrity—from a view page (app menu
      + option). More information: Create or edit model-driven app quick create forms for a
      streamlined data entry experience
      In the following example, a user needs to quickly create a lead by using the + menu
      option in the app header.
      In this example, the quick create form is used to create an appointment for a contact
      from the timeline wall.
      In this example, a user can quickly create an opportunity from a quote record form by
      using a lookup control.
       ７ Note
       Opportunity and quote tables require a Dynamics 365 customer engagement app,
       such as Dynamics 365 Sales.
      Using quick view forms to see data from related tables
      In many scenarios, a user just needs to quickly view information from a related table
      without having to interact with it. To facilitate these scenarios, you can use quick view
      forms. An example of where a quick view form is used is in the reference panel of a main
      record. This demonstrates the power of accessing multiple related records without
      having to navigate away.
       ７ Note
       While it is called a quick view form, it is in principle, a read only view of data. Users
       can't use this control to edit data.
      More information: Create a model-driven app quick view form to view information
      about a related table
       Using form display options to simplify forms
       There are many times when you need to build an experience that focuses the user on
       the task at hand without additional distraction that might cause inefficiency. This is
       especially important when you're working with tables and records that have global
       components, which are created and automatically added to forms regardless of the task
       you're trying to build. Although this provides a shareable and easy-to-build
       infrastructure that drives consistency across an app, it does at times provide
       unnecessary distraction.
       Form display options should be used when you want to lessen the number of actions,
       focus a user to complete a task, and reduce clutter by removing unnecessary
       components. Components that can be removed from a form include the command bar,
       the header body, and the form tabs.
       All these types of options are only available via the client API and manual formxml
       updates. Manual formxml manipulation can cause issues importing solutions if done
       incorrectly. Remove global form components carefully when designing your form.
       Navigation considerations
       When certain components are hidden like the command bar or the tab list, this may
       remove navigation that might be necessary to complete a task. Be sure to account for
       those requirements in your form design by using additional controls created with the
       Power Apps component framework.
      In this example, the command bar has been removed to reduce any unnecessary actions
      when working with an account. The command bar would ordinarily be shown as follows.
      This form has been designed to not need the command bar, so the maker has removed
      it to keep the user on task. More information: setCommandBarVisible (Client API
      reference)
      In this example, the header has been removed to promote a dense form that focuses
      the user on record details. This should only be used if the header doesn't provide
      additional value or displays information that doesn't always need to be available to a
      user. More information: setBodyVisible (Client API reference)
      In this example, the tabs have been removed. This can be helpful when you build a form
      that only has a single tab or you want to focus the user on the first tab of a form without
      the distractions of additional tabs that can lead to loss in productivity for a specific task.
      More information: setTabNavigatorVisible (Client API reference)
      Form display option to use the entire space of a tab
      In many scenarios, a form might exist with a tab and a single control, and you want that
      control to take up the entire available space within the body of the form on that tab.
      This can be done by using the form display option that allows the first control on a
      page in a tab to expand the full height and width of the form. All existing reflow
      rendering across view port sizes from large to small is honored, and will behave like a
      regular form except that the control will use the entire space. In this example, the
      Dynamics 365 Marketing application supports a full tab layout for the customer journey
      experience. The command bar is removed to further reduce clutter and ensure that the
      user is focused on the task of managing customer journeys in the application. More
      information: setContentType (Client API reference)
      Next steps
      Design forms for performance
     Design forms for performance in model-
     driven apps
     Building experiences where tasks can be completed quickly and efficiently is crucial to user
     satisfaction. Model-driven apps can be highly customized to create experiences that meet the
     needs of your users, but it is important to know how to effectively code, build, and run model-
     driven apps that load quickly when a user opens and navigates in your app while working on
     daily tasks. Performance has been shown to be a key driver of dissatisfaction of an app when it is
     not optimized for performance.
     Intelligent customizations and performant forms are important aspects to building highly
     efficient and productive forms. It's also important to make sure you're building highly productive
     forms with the best practices in user interface design and layout. For information about designing
     forms for efficiency and productivity, see Design productive main forms in model-driven apps.
     It is also important to ensure users are on recommended and supported devices and minimum
     required specifications. More information: Supported web browsers and mobile devices
     Working with data and tabs
     This section covers how controls that display data and tabs impact form performance.
     Significance of the default tab
     The default tab is the first expanded tab on a form. It plays a special role in the loading of a form
     page. By design, the controls of the default tab are always rendered when opening a record.
     Specifically, the control initialization logic, such as data retrieval, is invoked for every control on
     the tab.
     In contrast, a secondary tab does not perform this initialization on its controls when the form is
     initially loaded. Instead, the control initialization occurs at the time the secondary tab is opened
     either through user interaction or calling the setFocus client API method. This provides an
     opportunity to shelter the initial form load from excessive control processing by placing certain
     controls in secondary tabs instead of the default tab. Thus, the control placement strategy can
     have a significant effect on the responsiveness of the initial form load. A more responsive default
     tab provides a better overall experience for modifying important fields, interacting with the
     command bar, and exploring other tabs and sections.
     Always put controls that are used the most at the top of your default tab. Layout and information
     architecture is not only important for performance but also to improve productivity when users
     interact with data on the form. More information: Design productive main forms in model-driven
     apps
     Data-driven controls
     Controls that require extra data beyond the primary record produce the most strain on form
     responsiveness and loading speed. These controls fetch data over the network and often involve
     a waiting period (seen as progress indicators) because it can take time to transmit the data.
     Some of the data-driven controls include:
        Quick view form
        Subgrid
        Timeline
        Assistant (requires Dynamics 365 Sales Insights)
     Keep only the most frequently used of these controls on the default tab. The remaining data-
     driven controls should be distributed into secondary tabs to allow the default tab to load quickly.
     Furthermore, this layout strategy reduces the chance of fetching data that ends up being unused.
     There are other controls that are less impactful than the data-driven controls but can still
     participate in the above layout strategy in order to achieve the best performance. These controls
     include:
        Lookup
        iFrame
        Web resource
     Web browser
     This section covers good practices to use with web browsers.
     Don't open new windows
     The openForm client API method allows a parameter option to display a form in a new window.
     Don't use this parameter or set it to false. Setting it to false will ensure the openForm method
     performs the default behavior of displaying the form using the existing window. It is also possible
     to directly call the window.open JavaScript function from a custom script or another application;
     however, this should also be avoided. Opening a new window means that all of the page
     resources need to be fetched and loaded from scratch since the page is unable to leverage the
     in-memory data caching capabilities between a previously loaded form and the form in a new
     window. As an alternative to opening new windows, consider using the multisession experience
     that allows records to be opened in multiple tabs while still maximizing the performance benefits
     of client caching.
     Use modern browsers
     Using the most up-to-date web browser is key to ensuring your model-driven app runs as fast as
     possible. The reason for this is that many of the performance improvements can only be used in
     the newer modern browsers.
     For example, if your organization has older versions of Firefox, non-Chromium-based browsers,
     and so on, many of the performance gains that are built into a model-driven app will not be
     available in the older browser versions because they don't support features that the app depends
     on to run quickly and smoothly.
     In most cases, you can expect to see page load improvements by just switching to Microsoft
     Edge, updating to the latest current browser version from an older version, or moving to a
     modern Chromium-based browser.
     JavaScript customization
     This section covers how to make intelligent customizations when you use JavaScript that help you
     build performant forms and pages in a model-driven app.
     Using JavaScript with forms
     The ability for forms to be customized by JavaScript provides professional developers great
     flexibility over how a form looks and behaves. The improper use of this flexibility can negatively
     impact form performance. Developers should use the following strategies to maximize form
     performance when implementing JavaScript customizations.
     Use asynchronous network requests when requesting data
     Request data asynchronously rather than synchronously when extra data is necessary for
     customizations. For events that support waiting for asynchronous code like the form OnLoad and
     form OnSave events, event handlers should return a Promise in order for the platform to wait
    until the Promise is settled. The platform will show an appropriate UI while the user waits for the
    event to complete.
    For events that do not support waiting for asynchronous code, like the form OnChange event, you
    can use a workaround to stop interaction with a form while the code is doing an asynchronous
    request by using showProgressIndicator. This is better than using synchronous requests because
    users will still be able to interact with other parts of the application as a progress indicator is
    displayed.
    Here's an example using asynchronous code in synchronous extension points.
     JavaScript
     //Only do this if an extension point does not yet support asynchronous code
     try {
       await Xrm.WebApi.retrieveRecord("settings_entity", "7333e80e-9b0f-49b5-92c8-
     9b48d621c37c");
       //do other logic with data here
     } catch (error) {
       //do other logic with error here
     } finally {
       Xrm.Utility.closeProgressIndicator();
     }
     // Or using .then/.finally
     Xrm.Utility.showProgressIndicator("Checking settings...");
     Xrm.WebApi.retrieveRecord("settings_entity", "7333e80e-9b0f-49b5-92c8-9b48d621c37c")
       .then(
          (data) => {
            //do other logic with data here
          },
          (error) => {
            //do other logic with error here
          }
       )
       .finally(Xrm.Utility.closeProgressIndicator);
    You should be careful when using asynchronous code in an event handler that does not support
    waiting for asynchronous code. This is particularly true for code that needs an action to be taken
    or handled on the resolution of the asynchronous code. Asynchronous code can cause issues if
    the resolution handler expects the application context to remain the same as it was when the
    asynchronous code was started. Your code should check that the user is in the same context after
    each asynchronous continuation point.
    For example, there may be code in an event handler to make a network request and change a
    control to be disabled based on the response data. Before the response from the request is
    received, the user may have interacted with the control or navigated to a different page. Because
    the user is on a different page, the form context may not be available, which might lead to errors,
    or there might be other undesired behavior.
    Async support in form OnLoad and form OnSave events
    The form OnLoad and OnSave events support handlers that return promises. The events will wait
    for any promises returned by a handler to resolve, up to a timeout period. This support can be
    enabled via app settings.
    More information:
       Form OnLoad
       Form OnSave
       Interact with HTTP and HTTPS resources asynchronously
    Limit the amount of data requested during form load
    Only request the minimum amount of data that is necessary to perform business logic on a form.
    Cache the data that is requested as much as possible, especially for data that doesn’t change
    often or doesn’t need to be fresh. For example, imagine there is a form that requests data from a
    setting table. Based on data in the setting table, the form might choose to hide a section of the
    form. In this case, the JavaScript can cache data in sessionStorage so that data is only requested
    once per session (onLoad1). A stale-while-revalidate strategy might also be used where the
    JavaScript uses the data from sessionStorage while requesting data for the next navigation to the
    form (onLoad2). Finally, a deduplication strategy could be used in case a handler is called multiple
    times in a row (onLoad3).
     JavaScript
     const SETTING_ENTITY_NAME = "settings_entity";
     const SETTING_FIELD_NAME = "settingField1";
     const SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY = 
     `${SETTING_ENTITY_NAME}_${SETTING_FIELD_NAME}`;
     // Retrieve setting value once per session
     async function onLoad1(executionContext) {
       let settingValue = sessionStorage.getItem(SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY);
       // Ensure there is a stored setting value to use
       if (settingValue === null || settingValue === undefined) {
          settingValue = await requestSettingValue();
       }
       // Do logic with setting value here
     }
     // Retrieve setting value with stale-while-revalidate strategy
     async function onLoad2(executionContext) {
       let settingValue = sessionStorage.getItem(SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY);
         // Revalidate, but only await if session storage value is not present
       const requestPromise = requestSettingValue();
       // Ensure there is a stored setting value to use the first time in a session
       if (settingValue === null || settingValue === undefined) {
          settingValue = await requestPromise;
       }
       // Do logic with setting value here
     }
     // Retrieve setting value with stale-while-revalidate and deduplication strategy
     let requestPromise;
     async function onLoad3(executionContext) {
       let settingValue = sessionStorage.getItem(SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY);
       // Request setting value again but don't wait on it
       // In case this handler fires twice, don’t make the same request again if it is 
     already in flight
       // Additional logic can be added so that this is done less than once per page
       if (!requestPromise) {
          requestPromise = requestSettingValue().finally(() => {
            requestPromise = undefined;
          });
       }
       // Ensure there is a stored setting value to use the first time in a session
       if (settingValue === null || settingValue === undefined) {
          settingValue = await requestPromise;
       }
       // Do logic with setting value here
     }
     async function requestSettingValue() {
       try {
          const data = await Xrm.WebApi.retrieveRecord(
            SETTING_ENTITY_NAME,
            "7333e80e-9b0f-49b5-92c8-9b48d621c37c",
            `?$select=${SETTING_FIELD_NAME}`);
          try {
            sessionStorage.setItem(SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY, 
     data[SETTING_FIELD_NAME]);
          } catch (error) {
            // Handle sessionStorage error
          } finally {
            return data[SETTING_FIELD_NAME];
          }
       } catch (error) {
                  // Handle retrieveRecord error   
             }
         }
        Use information available in the client API rather than make requests. For example, rather than
        request a user’s security roles on form load, you can use getGlobalContext.userSettings.roles.
        Load code only when it’s needed
        Load as much code as needed for events for a particular form. If you have code that is only for
        form A and form B, it shouldn't be included in a library that is loaded for form C. It should be in its
        own library.
        Avoid loading libraries in the OnLoad event if they are only used for the OnChange or OnSave
        events. Instead, load them in those events. This way the platform can defer loading them until
        after the form loads. More information: Optimize form performance
        Remove usage of console APIs in production code
        Don't use the console API methods   such as console.log in production code. Logging data to
        the console can significantly increase memory demand and might prevent data from being
        cleaned up in memory. This can lead to the app becoming slower over time and eventually
        crashing.
        Avoid memory leaks
        Memory leaks in your code can lead to slower performance over time and eventually cause your
        app to crash. Memory leaks occur when the application fails to release memory when no longer
        needed. With all customizations and code components on your form, you should:
             Thoroughly consider and test scenarios for anything responsible for cleaning up memory,
             like classes responsible for managing lifecycle of objects.
             Cleanup all event listeners and subscriptions, especially if it’s on the window object.
             Cleanup all timers like setInterval.
             Avoid, limit, and cleanup references to global or static objects.
        For custom control components, cleanup can be done in the destroy method.
        For more information on fixing memory problems, go to this Edge developer documentation.
        Tools you can use to help make apps performant
        This section describes the tools that can help you understand performance issues and offer
        recommendations about how to optimize your customizations in model-driven apps.
        Solution checker
        Solution checker is a powerful tool that can analyze client and server customizations for
        performance or reliability issues. It can parse client-side JavaScript, form XML, and .NET server-
        side plug-ins and give targeted insights into what may slow end users down. We recommend that
        you run solution checker each time you publish changes in a development environment, so that
        any performance concerns are surfaced before reaching end users. More information: Use
        solution checker to validate your model-driven apps in Power Apps
        Some examples of performance-related issues found with solution checker:
             il-specify-column. Avoid selecting all columns via Dataverse query APIs.
             web-use-async. Interact with HTTP and HTTPS resources asynchronously.
             web-avoid-ui-refreshribbon  . Avoid using refreshRibbon in form OnLoad and EnableRule.
        Object checker
        Object checker runs real-time diagnostics on component objects within your solution. If issues
        are detected, a recommendation is returned that describes how to fix the issue. More
        information: Use object checker to diagnose a solution component (preview)
        Next steps
        Design productive main forms in model-driven apps
         Last updated on 05/21/2026
     Embed a Power BI report in a model-driven
     app main form
     You can use Power BI reports in Power Apps model-driven apps to bring rich reporting and
     analytics to your main forms and empower your users to accomplish more. This unlocks the
     power to aggregate data across systems, and tailor it down to the context of a single record.
     Prerequisites
     Embedding Power BI content is an optional feature and is disabled on all environments by
     default. You must enable it before you can embed Power BI content. More information: Enable
     Power BI visualizations in the organization.
     This feature requires exporting a solution, modifying it to replace the XML snippet, and then
     importing back into the environment. Be sure to import the changes on your development
     environment via an unmanaged solution only. Go to Import, update, and export solutions for
     guidance on installing an update to an existing unmanaged solution.
     Embed without contextual filtering
     You can use Power BI reports by embedding them, and get the exact same report. This doesn't
     involve contextualizing them to the current model-driven form, and hence you get the same
     report on all records of the table. For example, the following report shows the geographic
     location of all accounts at once, and is useful to show summary information.
    You can customize a main form XML controls node so that it can host an embedded Power BI
    report and tile by following these steps:
      1. In your development environment, create a solution and add the table that contains the
       main form where you want the embedded Power BI report to display. Choose the Select
       components option when you add the table to the solution. Then, add just the table's
       main form.
      2. Edit the table's main form in your solution and add a placeholder subgrid where you want
       to embed your Power BI report.
         Update the label and name of your subgrid in the form designer.
                                           
      3. Export the solution as unmanaged and extract all files in the solution package zip file.
       Then, edit the customizations.xml file and find the name of your subgrid. Replace the XML
              code provided inside the <control> block in the customizations.xml file. The rowspan in
              the parent cell node can be adjusted to change the size of the embedded Power BI
              report.
                XML
                <cell id="{7d18b61c-c588-136c-aee7-03e5e74a09a1}" showlabel="true" 
                rowspan="20" colspan="1" auto="false" solutionaction="Added">
                 <labels>
                    <label languagecode="1033" description="Accounts (Parent Account)"/>
                 </labels>
                 <control id="unfilteredreport" classid="{8C54228C-1B25-4909-A12A-
                F2B968BB0D62}">
                    <parameters>
                        <PowerBIGroupId>00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000</PowerBIGroupId>
                        <PowerBIReportId>544c4162-6773-4944-900c-
                abfd075f6081</PowerBIReportId>
                        <TileUrl>https://app.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=544c4162-6773-
                4944-900c-abfd075f6081</TileUrl>
                    </parameters>
                 </control>
                </cell>
                ） Important
                Be sure to use the control classid="{8C54228C-1B25-4909-A12A-F2B968BB0D62}" as
                indicated in the XML sample.
                   Make the following changes to the form XML that you copied into the
                   customizations.xml file for your Power BI report. This table describes the values you
                   need to change to the elements in the previous XML sample.
                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
               Property         Description
               PowerBIGroupId   The Power BI workspace ID. If your report is in My workspace, then the
                                workspace ID is 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000. Otherwise, add the
                                workspace ID. You can find the ID of the workspace in the Power BI service URL.
                                More information: Find the Power BI workspace and report Ids.
               PowerBIReportId  The Power BI report ID. Replace this with the report that you want to embed.
                                You can find the ID of your report in the Power BI service URL. More
                                information: Find the Power BI workspace and report Ids
            Property     Description
            TileUrl      The Power BI report URL that you want to embed. Be sure to use the correct
                         Power BI subdomain name (you might need to replace app.powerbi.com with
                         your own) and report ID (replace reportId=544c4162-6773-4944-900c-
                         abfd075f6081 with your own). For example,
                         https://app.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=544c4162-6773-4944-900c-
                         abfd075f6081.
         4. Create a zip file out of all the solution files previously extracted. Then, import the solution
           into the development environment.
       Embed with contextual filtering
       You can make Power BI reports more meaningful by applying contextual filters to the current
       model-driven form, so that the report is filtered based on attributes of the current row. For
       example, the following report shows the geographic location of an account, by filtering the
       Power BI report using the account name. This allows a single report to show contextualized
       information for all rows of the table.
       The filtering is done by adding a <PowerBIFilter> element in the <parameter> block as shown
       here. You can use any attribute of the form's table to construct the filter expression. More
       information: Constructing Filters to understand how to create your own filters.
        XML
        <control id="filteredreport" classid="{8C54228C-1B25-4909-A12A-F2B968BB0D62}">
            <parameters>
               <PowerBIGroupId>00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000</PowerBIGroupId>
                      <PowerBIReportId>544c4162-6773-4944-900c-abfd075f6081</PowerBIReportId>
                      <TileUrl>https://xyz.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=544c4162-6773-4944-
            900c-abfd075f6081</TileUrl>
                      <PowerBIFilter>{"Filter": "[{\"$schema\":\"basic\",\"target\":
            {\"table\":\"table_name_of_power_bi_dataset\",\"column\":\"power_bi_field\"},\"oper
            ator\":\"In\",\"values\":[$a],\"filterType\":1}]", "Alias": {"$a": 
            "field_name_in_powerapps_to_filter"}}</PowerBIFilter>
                 </parameters>
            </control>
          Note that this uses the same control as the unfiltered report embedding, and hence the control
          class ID remains unchanged.
          This table describes any additional properties used in the previous XML sample.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
           Property        Description
           PowerBIFilter   The filter expression that contextualizes the Power BI report by passing the form
                           attributes as parameters. To make it more readable, the filter is constructed as shown
                           here. The filter expression can't be a comma separated list of values.
            JSON
                 {
                         "Filter": "[{
                                 \"$schema\":\"basic\",
                                 \"target\":{
                                         \"table\":\"table_name_of_power_bi_dataset\",
                                         \"column\":\"power_bi_field\"
                                 },
                                 \"operator\":\"In\",
                                 \"values\":[$a, $b],
                                 \"filterType\":1
                         }]",
                         "Alias": {
                                 "$a": "field1_name_in_powerapps_to_filter",
                                 "$b":"field2_name_in_powerapps_to_filter"
                         }
                 }
          The target part of the previous expression identifies the table and the column to apply the
          filters on. The operator identifies the logic and values identify the data passed from the Power
          Apps model-driven app. To parameterize in a generic way, the values are constructed by
          aliasing. In the previous expression, the value of an account's firstname and lastname are
          passed, and either of them is searched in the Account Name column in the Power BI report.
     Note that firstname and lastname are the unique names of attributes of the account table,
     whose value will be passed here.
     You can create more complex filter expressions by looking at examples from Constructing
     Filters and providing the appropriate values for $schema and filterType. Be sure to escape
     every literal in the filter part using ", so that the JSON is generated correctly.
     Find the Power BI workspace and report Ids
       1. The workspace ID for this example is efc85277-2bdb-47bc-9762-363f64335108.
       2. The report ID for this example is 643ab643-7126-4a57-bd82-ca8f1fb676fc.
                                                    
     Known issues and limitations
        Opening this form in the Power Apps form designer doesn't show the control in a
        meaningful way. This is because the control is customized outside of the form designer.
        Users are authenticated into Power BI automatically with their Power Apps username and
        password. If a Power BI account with matching credentials doesn’t exist, a sign-in prompt
        is displayed as illustrated here.
       No data displays if an incorrect account is used to log into Power BI. To sign in with the
       correct credentials, sign out, and then sign in again.
        The view of the report data shown inside Power Apps is the same as Power BI, and Power
        Apps security roles and privileges don't affect the data that is displayed. Hence, the data
        is essentially the same as what the creator of the Power BI dataset would see. To apply
        data access restrictions similar to Power Apps security roles and teams, use Row-level
        security (RLS) with Power BI.
        If the form doesn’t show the Power BI report after importing the solution and publishing
        customizations, open it in the model-driven form designer and save it, so that the form
        JSON is regenerated.
        Embedding a Power BI tile on a form is only supported without contextual filtering.
        Embedding a Power BI report doesn't support cross-tenant references. For example,
        trying to embed a Power BI report belonging to the Contoso tenant in a model-driven
        app belonging to the Fabrikam tenant isn't currently supported, even if the report being
        embedded has been shared with users in the Fabrikam tenant via Power BI.
        Pinned reports as part of Power BI dashboards aren't meant to be interactive. If you want
        to have interactive Power BI reports, embed them directly instead of pinning them to a
        dashboard.
     Common issues
        The group ID isn't specified in the TileUrl node of the control parameters when it might
        need to be. This example includes a group ID.
      XML
      <parameters>
         <PowerBIGroupId>fd266a4c-9a02-4553-9310-80e05ee844f3</PowerBIGroupId>
         <PowerBIReportId>544c4162-6773-4944-900c-abfd075f6081</PowerBIReportId>
         <TileUrl>https://xyz.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=544c4162-6773-4944-900c-
      abfd075f6081&amp;groupId=fd266a4c-9a02-4553-9310-80e05ee844f3</TileUrl>
      </parameters>
        Fields have different data types in Power BI and Dataverse. They need to be the same
        type, such as string in Power BI and string in Dataverse.
        String fields don't have escaped quotes in the Power BI filter. Notice values has [\"$a\"]
        rather than [$a].
      JSON
          {
                  "Filter": "[{
                          \"$schema\":\"basic\",
                          \"target\":{
                                  \"table\":\"table_name_of_power_bi_dataset\",
                                  \"column\":\"power_bi_field\"
                          },
                          \"operator\":\"In\",
                          \"values\":[\"$a\"],
                          \"filterType\":1
                  }]",
                  "Alias": {
                          "$a": "field_name_in_powerapps_to_filter",
                  }
          }
      See also
      Embed a Power BI dashboard in a Power Apps model-driven personal dashboard
      Use Power BI with Dynamics 365 apps
       Last updated on 04/03/2026
     Embed a canvas app on a model-
     driven form
     Canvas apps enable makers to easily design and create custom layouts using the low-code,
     WYSIWYG Power Apps Studio. Canvas apps also enable makers to connect and display data from
     over 400 data sources.
     With embedded canvas apps, makers can bring the power of canvas apps to their model-driven
     app forms. Using embedded canvas apps, it's possible to create rich visual areas on a form and
     display data from a variety of sources right next to data from Microsoft Dataverse.
     Canvas apps are embedded in model-driven app forms in the same way other custom controls
     are added. An embedded canvas app includes rich data integration capabilities that bring in
     contextual data from the host model-driven form to the embedded canvas app.
     Integrate canvas apps using custom pages in the
     modern app designer
     With the modern app designer, canvas apps can be accessed through a model-driven app by
     using a custom page.
     The modern app designer introduced the concept of pages, which can contain either canvas apps
     or Dataverse components, such as tables, dashboards, and web resources.
     Select the Canvas app control to add a canvas app to a main form using the form designer. More
     information: Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
     Embed using the classic designer
     Add canvas apps from an environment into a model-driven app that can either be contextually
     aware, or simply render the app within the model-driven experience. More information: Embed a
     canvas app using the classic experience.
     Sharing embedded canvas apps
     After an embedded canvas app is added to your model-driven form, learn how to share the
     embedded canvas app with other users. More information: Learn how to share an embedded
     canvas app.
     For guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps as well as helpful tips to troubleshoot any
     issues, go to: Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps.
     See also
     What are canvas apps in Power Apps?
     Add and configure a canvas-app control in Power Apps
     Overview of canvas-app connectors for Power Apps
     Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
     Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
     Customize the screen size and orientation of a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
     Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
     ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
     Share an embedded canvas app
     Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
     Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public preview
     release to latest
      Last updated on 08/12/2026
    Add an embedded canvas app on a model-
    driven form
    This article explains how to embed a canvas app on a model-driven form. Canvas apps can be
    connected to a wide range of data sources and offer designers greater control around the
    overall user experience.
    Two methods of integration are described in this article. First, using the modern Unified
    Interface experience, and second, using the classic experience.
     ） Important
        There is a third and more recent method of embedding canvas apps inside a modern
        app, which uses custom pages for better integration with the canvas app. More
        information: Overview of custom pages for model-driven apps.
        Both the modern form and classic form designers allow you to add an existing
        canvas app to embed in a model-driven form. However, currently only the classic
        form designer allows you to create a new canvas app to embed. More information:
        Embed a canvas app using the classic experience
        To enable access to form data through the ModelDrivenFormIntegration control, the
        embedded canvas app must be created using the classic form designer. Apps added
        through the modern or classic experience don't currently support this integration.
        For more information about how to create a canvas app to embed on a model-
        driven form using the classic form designer go to Embed a canvas app using the
        classic experience. For more information about the ModelDrivenFormIntegration
        control go to ModelDrivenFormIntegration control properties and actions.
         Embed a canvas app using the modern experience
         To embed a canvas app on a model-driven app main form, such as the main form for the
         Accounts table, follow these steps:
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Choose the environment, and then select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the
              item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Open the solution that has the table where you want to add a canvas app to a main form.
            4. Open the table, select Forms, and then open the Main form you want.
                  Tip
                 By default, the canvas app component label is New canvas app. You might want to
                 change the canvas app label name to something more meaningful, such as the name
                 of the canvas app or a short description of the canvas app that you’re embedding
                 onto the form.
            5. Select the area on the form where you want the canvas app to display or create a new tab
              to display the canvas app.
            6. On the left navigation pane select Components, expand Display, and then select the
              Canvas app component.
      7. The following properties can be configured for the control.
         The Entity name area lets you specify the following properties:
          Bind to table column: When the Bind to table column is selected, the Static
          value property changes to allow you to select what table column to bind to.
          When you choose to bind to a table column, the column will be defined by the
          table column value. For example, when Bind to table column is selected for the
          Entity name, at app runtime the value of the table name takes the value of the
          Table column specified.
          Static value: Use this to add a name for you to refer to the canvas app. Notice
          that this value has no effect on the embedded canvas app. It's meant only to
          serve as a reference point.
         The App name area specifies the unique name of the canvas app.
          Bind to table column: When you select the Bind to table column, the Static
          value property changes to allow you to select what table column to bind to.
          When you choose to bind to a table column, the column will be defined by the
          table column value. For example, when you select Bind to table column for the
          App Name, at app runtime the value of the app name takes the value of the
          Table column, such as the value from a custom text column.
          Static value: Specifies the unique name of the canvas app to embed. Enter the
          canvas app's unique name for an existing canvas app. More information: How to
          find the unique name and app ID for a canvas app
         The required App ID area specifies the app ID for the canvas app.
          Bind to table column: When you select Bind to table column, the list changes to
          allow you to select what table column to bind to. When you choose to bind to a
          table column, the column will be defined by the table column value. For example,
          when you select Bind to table column for the App Name, at app runtime the
          value of the app name takes the value of the column, such as the value from a
          custom text column.
          ） Important
          For most situations, we don’t recommend using the Bind to table column
          option for the App ID as this would require the correct app ID to be shown in a
          field within the record.
          Static value: Enter the app ID for an existing canvas app. More information: How
          to find the unique name and app ID for a canvas app
         Show component on. Specifies the client type to display the embedded canvas app.
         Choose from Web, Mobile, and Tablet.
      8. Select Done. Then, to publish your app to make it available to users, select Save and
       publish.
    After you have published an embedded canvas app to your model-driven form, share your
    embedded canvas app with other users. More information: Share an embedded canvas app.
    When users open a model-driven app that includes the form you have modified, they see the
    embedded canvas app on the form. Changing the record displayed on the main form changes
    the data context that is passed to the form, and the embedded app refreshes to show the
    relevant data.
    This article showed you how to get started with embedding a canvas app in a model-driven
    form. You can further customize the embedded canvas app to connect and bring in data from
    various data sources. Use the Filter, Search, and LookUp functions and the context passed in
    from the host model-driven form to filter or find specific records in those data sources. Use the
    WYSIWYG canvas app editor to easily design the interface to match your requirements.
         How to find the unique name and app ID for a
         canvas app
         The canvas app control looks for the canvas app first by using the unique name found in the
         App name field. If a canvas app with that unique name can't be found in the environment, the
         canvas app control next uses the specified value in the App ID field to load the canvas app.
         Although you must enter values in both the App name and App ID fields, only one of the
         values needs to be accurate for the embedded canvas app to load in the control. Note that the
         canvas app must be in the current environment.
              The App name field is the unique name of the canvas app. To find the unique name, add
              the canvas app to a solution. The canvas app unique name is displayed in the Name
              column and appears in the form solutionpublisherprefix_appnamenospaces_appendix. For
              example, contoso_canvasappwithsharepointlist_5ee16.
                                                                                                  
              The App ID property specifies the ID of the embedded canvas app. Enter the App ID for
              an existing canvas app. The canvas App ID can be found on Power Apps, go to Apps,
              select the canvas app, and then select Details on the command bar.
         Embed a canvas app using the classic experience
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Create or edit the main form of a table, Accounts table in our example.
            3. In the command bar, select Switch to classic to open the form in the classic form
              designer.
      4. In the classic form designer, select the section on the form where you want the
       embedded canvas app to appear.
      5. Using the column pane, add a required column, such as Account Name.
        ） Important
        Always use a required column that is guaranteed to have a value. If your column
        doesn't have a value, your embedded canvas app won't refresh in response to any
        change in data on the host model-driven form.
      6. With the column selected, on the Home tab in the Edit group, select Change Properties.
      7. On the Column Properties dialog box, select the Controls tab.
      8. On the Controls tab, select Add Control.
      9. On the Add Control dialog box, in the list of available controls, select Canvas app and
       then select Add.
     10. On the Column Properties dialog box, in the list of controls select Canvas app, and then
       select the Web option.
     11. If you want to create a new canvas app, go to the next step. To add an existing canvas
       app, in the section below the controls list, the lists of properties available to the canvas
       app control are displayed.
         The Table name property specifies the table that provides the data to your
         embedded canvas app. It is set to the table that contains the column you added in
         an earlier step.
          Notice that, even though this property appears changeable, changing it has no
          effect on the embedded canvas app. It's meant only to serve as a reference for
          you.
         The App Name property specifies the name of the canvas app to embed. The
         model-driven form looks for the canvas app with the specified name in the current
         environment. If a canvas app with that name can't be found in the environment, the
         canvas app control uses the App ID to load the canvas app. Enter the App Name for
         an existing canvas app.
         The App ID property specifies the ID of the embedded canvas app. You can enter an
         App ID for an existing canvas app or an App ID will be automatically generated and
         filled-in for you when you create or edit a canvas app by selecting Customize. The
         canvas App ID can be found on Power Apps, go to Apps, select the canvas app, and
         then select Details on the command bar.
        ７ Note
        Notice that any change to the App ID value breaks the link from the model-driven
        form to the embedded canvas app.
        If neither the App Name or App ID matches an existing canvas app, the form displays
        the message "Sorry, we didn't find that app."
     12. Go to step 20 if you're adding a completed canvas app. If you're creating a new or editing
       an existing canvas app, continue to follow these steps. Select Customize to create or edit
       a canvas app. This opens Power Apps Studio in a new tab.
     ７ Note
     If opening Power Apps Studio is blocked due to a web browser pop-up blocker you must
     enable the make.powerapps.com site or temporarily disable the pop-up blocker and then
     select Customize again. 13. Observe the following:
       In Power Apps Studio notice that there's a special ModelDrivenFormIntegration control in
       the left pane. This control is responsible for bringing contextual data from the host
       model-driven form to the embedded canvas app.
       Observe that a canvas app form control was automatically added to your embedded
       canvas app and displays the data being passed to it from the host model-driven form via
       the ModelDrivenFormIntegration control.
       Select the View tab, and then select Data sources. Notice that a data source for the
       parent table of your host model-driven form, Accounts in this case, was automatically
       added to your embedded canvas app. - Select the Form1 control and observe that the
       DataSource property is set to Accounts.
        With the Form1 control still selected, observe that the Item property is set to
        ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.
     ７ Note
     The embedded canvas app has full access to read from the host model-driven form via
     ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item. > As an example, to get the value of a column with the
     name accountnumber and display name Account Number, you can use
     ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.accountnumber or
     ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.'Account Number'. 14. In the property pane on the
     right, next to Columns, select Edit columns. 15. Select + Add column to add another
     column to the canvas app form or reorder existing columns using drag and drop. Close
     the data pane when you're done adding and reordering columns. 16. Select the File tab,
     and then select Save. 17. Select the The cloud tab. Provide a unique name for the app and
     then select Save located on the lower right. Note the following behavior:
       Saving an app for the first time automatically publishes the app.
       On subsequent saves, select Publish and then select Publish this version to make your
       changes available.
     18. On the menu, select Back.
     19. Select the browser tab that has the classic form designer open. Observe that the App ID
       and App Name properties of the canvas app control now have a value automatically filled
       in.
     ） Important
        The form designer has a direct link with Power Apps Studio that was opened in
        another browser tab in an earlier step.
        Make sure the App name has a value similar to the screenshot here. The App name
        property specifies the unique name that is used to reference the canvas app at
        runtime. If this name isn’t set, the App ID property is used to reference the canvas
        app, which might cause issues when you import the canvas app as part of a solution.
        We recommend that you set this name to ensure proper canvas app referencing
        between environments. To set it, go back to step 12 and follow the steps to create
        the canvas app to embed.
       20. On the Column Properties dialog box, select the Display tab.
       21. Clear Display label on the form and then select OK. If you already have a canvas app
          embedded on this form, a message is displayed that “Only one canvas app can be
          enabled on a form.” To add the new canvas app, you must first disable the current
          embedded canvas app. Then, enable the new embedded canvas app.
       22. On the Home tab, select Save, and then select Publish.
      See also
      Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
      Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
      ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
      Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
       Last updated on 11/17/2025
         Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-
         driven form
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
         This article explains how to edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form by using the
         classic designer.
         Edit the canvas app directly
         You can edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form just like any other canvas app.
         For steps on editing a canvas app go to: Edit a canvas app
         Edit the canvas app via the host model-driven form
         An alternate option is to edit the embedded canvas app via the host model-driven form.
         Imagine that you want to edit a canvas app embedded on a form named Account Main Form
         for the Accounts table. To do this, follow these steps:
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Edit the form named Account Main Form for the Accounts table.
            3. In the command bar, select Switch to classic to open the form in the classic form
              designer.
            4. In the classic form designer, select the column that is customized to display the
              embedded canvas app.
            5. With the column selected, on the Home tab in the Edit group, select Change Properties.
            6. On the Column Properties dialog box, select the Controls tab.
            7. In the Column Properties dialog box, in the list of controls select Canvas app.
            8. In the section below the controls list, select Customize to edit the canvas app. This opens
              the canvas app for editing, in Power Apps Studio, in a new tab.
                 ７ Note
                 If opening Power Apps Studio is blocked due to a web browser pop-up blocker you
                 must enable the make.powerapps.com site or temporarily disable the pop-up
          blocker and then select Customize again.
       9. When you finish making changes, select the File tab, and then select Save.
       10. To make your changes available to users select Publish and then select Publish this
         version.
      Related articles
      Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form
      Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
      Customize the screen size and orientation of a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
      Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
      ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
      Share an embedded canvas app
      Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
      Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public preview
      release to latest
      Last updated on 02/21/2026
      Customize the screen size and orientation
      of a canvas app embedded on a model-
      driven form
      Article • 05/22/2025
      You can customize the screen size (tablet layout only) and orientation of a canvas app
      embedded on a model-driven form.
        1. Follow the steps to add or edit an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form.
             Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
             Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
        2. With the canvas app open in Power Apps Studio, select the File tab, select Settings, and
          then select the Screen size + orientation tab to set the orientation screen and orientation
          of the canvas app. More information: Change screen size and orientation of a canvas app
          in Power Apps
      See also
      Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form
      Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
      Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
      ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
      Share an embedded canvas app
      Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
      Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public preview
      release to latest
          Perform predefined actions on the host
          model-driven form from within an
          embedded canvas app
               Summarize this article for me
          ﾃ
          Embedded canvas apps provide the ability to perform predefined actions on the host model-
          driven form. These actions enable makers to navigate, refresh and save the host model-driven
          form. Using these actions, an embedded canvas app can act as a more integral part of the
          model-driven form and the model-driven app.
          The ModelDrivenFormIntegration object includes the following new methods to enable
          makers to perform actions on the host model-driven form.
             ） Important
             To be able to interact with the ModelDrivenFormIntegration control, the canvas app must
             be created by selecting Customize on the Canvas app control properties for the model-
             driven form using the classic form designer. More information: Embed a canvas app using
             the classic experience
          NavigateToMainForm(entityName, mainFormName, recordId)
          Navigates the host model-driven form to a main form and displays the specified row.
                entityName - A required string parameter that specifies the parent table of the main
                form.
                formName - A required string parameter that specifies the name of the main form to
                navigate to.
                recordId - A required string parameter, that specifies the ID of the row to display in the
                main form.
          Calling the NavigateToMainForm method can return the following error messages.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
           Error message               Troubleshooting guidance
           Table not found:            Please check the value of the entityName parameter and ensure it is a valid
           [EntityName]                table name and that the user has access to it.
           Error message             Troubleshooting guidance
           Form not found:           Please check the value of the mainFormName parameter and ensure it is a
           [FormName]                valid main form name and that the user has access to it.
           There was a problem       Please check the value of the recordId parameter and ensure it is a valid row
           loading the row.          ID and that the user has access to it.
         NavigateToView(entityName, viewName)
         Navigates the host model-driven form to a view.
               entityName - A required string parameter that specifies the parent table of the view.
               viewName - A required string parameter that specifies the name of the main form to
               navigate to.
         Calling the NavigateToView method can return the following error messages.
                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
           Error message           Troubleshooting guidance
           Table not found:        Please check the value of the entityName parameter and ensure it is a valid
           [EntityName]            table name and that the user has access to it.
           View not found:         Please check the value of the viewName parameter and ensure it is a valid view
           [ViewName]              name and that the user has access to it.
         OpenQuickCreateForm(entityName)
         Opens the default quick create form for a table.
               entityName - A required string parameter that specifies the parent table of the quick
               create form.
         Calling the OpenQuickCreateForm method can return the following error messages.
                                                                                          ﾉ
                                                                                              Expand table
           Error message           Troubleshooting guidance
           Table not found:        Please check the value of the entityName parameter and ensure it is a valid
           [EntityName]            table name and that the user has access to it.
           RefreshForm(showPrompt)
           Refreshes the data on the host model-driven form.
                 showPrompt - A required boolean parameter that indicates if a confirmation prompt
                 should be displayed to the user before saving any unsaved data on the host model-driven
                 form. Values should be "true" or "false".
           Calling the RefreshForm method can return the following error messages.
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
            Error message                            Troubleshooting guidance
            Please use "true" or "false" as the      Please check the value of the showPrompt parameter and ensure
            parameter value.                         that it is either "true" or "false".
           SaveForm()
           Saves the data on the host model-driven form.
              ７ Note
              If you don't observe the IntelliSense for the methods to perform predefined actions in
              embedded canvas apps that were created prior to the functionality being made available;
              save, close and re-open the app.
           Related articles
           Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form
           Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
           Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
           Customize the screen size and orientation of a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
           ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
           Share an embedded canvas app
           Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
           Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public preview
           release to latest
            Last updated on 02/21/2026
    ModelDrivenFormIntegration control
    properties and actions
    Canvas apps embedded on model-driven forms contain a special control named
    ModelDrivenFormIntegration. This control is responsible for bringing contextual data from the
    host model-driven form to the embedded canvas app.
      ） Important
      To be able to interact with the ModelDrivenFormIntegration control, the canvas app must
      be created by selecting Customize on the Canvas app control properties for the model-
      driven form using the classic form designer. More information: Embed a canvas app using
      the classic experience
    This article explains the properties and actions available on the ModelDrivenFormIntegration
    control. This control is available to customize in Power Apps Studio when you create the canvas
    app using the Canvas app control properties UI in the classic form designer.
    mod
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
           Property or action      Description
           DataSource              Should be set to the data source connected to the parent table of the host
                                   model-driven form.
                                   Automatically set when embedding a new canvas app. When embedding an
                                   existing canvas app, ModelDrivenFormIntegration data source can be
                                   configured from the canvas app tree view.
                                   The value for DataSource should always refer to the table of the form the app is
                                   embedded in. The value shouldn't be filtered or modified in any way.
           Item                    Read-only property that enables the embedded canvas app to access the row
                                   from the host model-driven form.
                                   As an example, to get the value of a column with the name accountnumber and
                                   display name Account Number, you can use
                                   ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.accountnumber or
                                   ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.'Account Number'.
           OnDataRefresh           The formula in this property is evaluated when the host model-driven form
                                   saves data.
                                   Use it to refresh the data source connected to the parent table of the host
                                   model-driven form and to perform other actions like setting or updating
                                   variables.
                                   As an example, setting it to the formula below will refresh the Accounts data
                                   source and set a variable named CurrentAccountNumber to the value of the
                                   Account Number column of the current row.
                                   Refresh(Accounts); Set(CurrentAccountNumber,
                                   ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.'Account Number')
                                   The OnDataRefresh action should only be used to refresh data within the
                                   embedded canvas app. We don’t recommend that you use the OnDataRefresh
                                   action to save changes within the embedded canvas app. More information:
                                   Saving data in an embedded canvas app
           RefreshForm             Refreshes the data on the host model-driven form.
                                   See Perform predefined actions on the host form for details.
           SaveForm                Saves the data on the host model-driven form.
                                   See Perform predefined actions on the host form for details.
           NavigateToMainForm      Navigates the host model-driven form to a main form and displays the
                                   specified row.
                                   See Perform predefined actions on the host form for details.
           NavigateToView          Navigates the host model-driven form to a view.
                                   See Perform predefined actions on the host form for details.
           OpenQuickCreateForm     Opens the default quick create form for an table.
                                   See Perform predefined actions on the host form for details.
           Property or action      Description
           Data                    Read-only property used by the framework to send some key data from the
                                   host model-driven form to the embedded canvas app.
                                   Do not use this property. Use Item to access the row from the host model-
                                   driven form.
          ModelDrivenFormIntegration control data is not
          available on app start
          The ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item property isn't guaranteed to be populated with data
          when the app starts. The app should either be designed to wait for this data using an
          expression like !IsBlank(ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item), or the app should explicitly
          retrieve the record using an expression like LookUp(Accounts, Account =
          GUID(First(ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Data).ItemId)).
          See also
          Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form
          Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
          Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
          Share an embedded canvas app
          Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
           Last updated on 11/18/2025
         Pass the current record as data context to
         an embedded canvas app
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
            ） Important
            Canvas apps embedded on model-driven forms are generally available. The steps listed
            below are outdated and applicable only to the public preview release of canvas apps
            embedded on model-driven forms. For the updated list of steps for the latest release, go
            to: Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
         This article explains how to add an embedded canvas app and pass the current (main form)
         record as a data context to the embedded canvas app.
         Imagine that you want to add an embedded canvas app on an account main form and pass the
         current account record to the embedded canvas app. To do this, follow these steps:
            1. Sign in to Power Apps    and open the form editor for a main form of a table, such as the
              account table.
            2. Select the section on the form where you want the embedded canvas app to appear.
            3. Using the column explorer pane, add a required column, such as Account Name.
                 ） Important
                 Always use a required column that is guaranteed to have a value. If your column
                 does not have a value, your embedded canvas app will not refresh in response to
                 any change in data on the host model-driven form.
            4. With the column selected, on the Home tab in the Edit group, select Change Properties.
            5. On the Column Properties dialog box, select the Controls tab.
            6. On the Controls tab, select Add Control....
            7. On the Add Control dialog box, in the list of available controls, select Canvas app and
              then select Add.
            8. In the Column Properties dialog box, in the list of controls select Canvas app, and then
              select the Web option.
            9. In the section below the controls list, the list of properties available to the canvas app
              control are displayed.
                    The Table name property specifies the table that will provide the data to your
                    embedded canvas app. It will be set to the table that contains the column you
         added in an earlier step.
          Notice that, even though this property appears changeable, changing it has no
          effect on the embedded canvas app. It is meant only to serve as a reference for
          you.
         The App ID property specifies the ID of the embedded canvas app. It will be
         automatically generated and filled-in for you when the canvas app is created.
          Notice that any change to the App ID value breaks the link from the model-
          driven form to the embedded canvas app.
     10. Select Customize to create or edit the canvas app. This opens Power Apps Studio in a new
       tab.
        ７ Note
          The Customize option is currently only available by using the classic form
          designer.
          If opening Power Apps Studio is blocked due to a web browser pop-up blocker
          you must enable the make.powerapps.com site or temporarily disable the pop-
          up blocker and then select Customize again.
     11. In Power Apps Studio notice that there is a special ModelDrivenFormIntegration control
       in the left pane. This control is responsible for bringing contextual data from the host
       model-driven form to the embedded canvas app.
     12. Select the Gallery1 control and observe that the Items property is set to
       ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Data.
        ７ Note
        ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Data is a list of records. In this example it has only one
        record. To directly reference the record you can use the First function. For example,
        First(ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Data).Name.
     13. In the property pane on the right, next to Columns, select Edit.
     14. In the data pane, change the column mapped to the Title1 control to Name or another
       column that has data.
     15. Observe that the gallery displays the data being passed to it from the host model-driven
       form via the ModelDrivenFormIntegration control. Close the data pane.
     16. Select the File tab, and then select Settings.
     17. On the Upcoming features tab, in the Experimental features section, set Optimize
       embedding appearance to On.
     18. Select the General tab. Provide a unique name for the app and then select Save. Note the
       following:
           Saving an app for the first time automatically publishes the app.
           On subsequent saves, select Publish and then select Publish this version to make
           your changes available.
      19. Close the Settings dialog.
      20. On the menu, select Back and then select the browser tab that has the form editor open.
        Observe that the App ID property of the canvas app control now has a value
        automatically filled in. Note the following:
           The form editor has a direct link with Power Apps Studio that was opened in another
           browser tab in an earlier step.
           The form editor "listens" for the App ID to be sent to it.
           The App ID is sent to the form editor when the app is saved.
      21. On the Column Properties dialog box, select the Display tab.
      22. Clear Display label on the form and then select OK.
           If you already have a canvas app embedded on this form, a message is displayed
           that “Only one canvas app can be enabled on a form.” To add the new canvas app
           you must first disable the current embedded canvas app. Then, enable the new
           embedded canvas app.
      23. On the Home tab, select Save, and then select Publish.
     After you have added an embedded canvas app to your model-driven form, share your
     embedded canvas app with other users. More information: Share an embedded canvas app.
     When users open a model-driven app (Unified Interface only) that includes the form you have
     modified, they see the embedded canvas app on the form. Changing the row displayed on the
     main form changes the data context that is passed to the form, and the embedded app
     refreshes to show the relevant data.
     This topic showed you how to get started with embedding a canvas app in a model-driven
     form. You can further customize the embedded canvas app to connect and bring in data from a
     variety of data sources. Use the Filter, Search, and LookUp functions and the context passed in
     from the host model-driven form to filter or find specific records in those data sources. Use the
     WYSIWYG canvas app editor to easily design the interface to match your requirements.
     See also
     Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form
     Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
     Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
     Customize the screen size and orientation of a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
      Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
      ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
      Share an embedded canvas app
      Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
      Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public preview
      release to latest
      Last updated on 02/20/2026
             Pass a list of related records as data
             context to an embedded canvas app
             Article • 02/15/2022
               ） Important
               Canvas apps embedded on model-driven forms are now out of preview and
               generally available. The steps listed below are outdated and applicable only to the
               public preview release of canvas apps embedded on model-driven forms. For the
               updated list of steps for the latest release, go to: Add an embedded canvas app on
               a model-driven form
             Overview
             This article explains how to add an embedded canvas app and pass a list of records
             related to the current (main form) record as a data context to the embedded canvas
             app.
             Procedure
             Let's say you want to add an embedded canvas app on an account main form and pass
             a list of contacts related to the current account record to the embedded canvas app. To
             do this, follow these steps:
                1. Sign in to Power Apps   and open the form editor for a main form of a table, such
                  as the account table.
                2. Select the section on the form where you want the embedded canvas app to
                  appear.
                3. With the section selected, on the Insert tab, in the Control group, select Sub-Grid.
                4. In the Set Properties dialog box, select the Display tab, and then in the Name box
                  enter a name for the grid control.
                5. In the Data Source section, select an Table and Default View that corresponds to
                  the list of records that you want to pass as data context to the embedded canvas
                  app.
       6. Select the Controls tab, and then select Add Control…
       7. In the Add Control dialog box, in the list of available controls, select Canvas app
        and then select Add.
       8. In the Set Properties dialog box, in the list of controls select Canvas app and then
        select the Web option.
       9. In the section below the controls list, see the list of properties corresponding to
        the Canvas app control and note the following:
           The Table name property specifies the table that will provide the data to your
           embedded canvas app. It will be set to the table that you selected earlier.
            Even though this property appears changeable, changing it has no effect
            on the embedded canvas app. It is meant only to serve as a reference for
            you.
           The View name property specifies the view of the table that will be used to
           filter the data provided to your embedded canvas app. It will be set to the
           Default View you selected earlier.
            The data (fields and values) sent to the embedded canvas app at runtime
            are determined by this view. Only use columns in your canvas app that are
            included in the view or add them to the view if needed. Any columns that
            are not included in the view display as empty values at runtime.
            The filter criteria for a view are not used at authoring time. Therefore, the
            data that you see when authoring embedded canvas apps is not filtered, it
            is simply a list of top few records that you have access to. At runtime, the
            filter criteria for the view are applied as expected so users only see relevant
            data.
           The App ID property specifies the ID of the embedded canvas app. It is
           automatically generated and filled-in for you when the canvas app is created.
            Notice that any change to the App ID value breaks the link from the
            model-driven form to the embedded canvas app.
       10. Select the Customize button to create or edit the canvas app. This opens Power
        Apps Studio in a new browser tab.
         ） Important
            The Customize option is currently only available by using the classic
            form designer.
            If opening Power Apps Studio is blocked due to a web browser pop-up
            blocker, you must enable the make.powerapps.com site or temporarily
            disable the pop-up blocker and then select Customize again.
       11. In Power Apps Studio, notice that there is a ModelDrivenFormIntegration control
        located in the left pane. This control is responsible for bringing contextual data
        from the host model-driven form to the embedded canvas app.
       12. Select the Gallery1 control and observe that the Items property is set to
        ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Data.
       13. In the property pane on the right, next to Columns, select Edit.
       14. In the data pane, change the column mapped to the Title1 control to FullName or
        another column that has data.
       15. Observe that the gallery displays the data being passed to it from the host model-
        driven form via the ModelDrivenFormIntegration control. Close the data pane.
       16. Select the File tab, and select Settings.
       17. On the Upcoming features tab, in the Experimental features section, set Optimize
        embedding appearance to On.
       18. Select the General tab. Provide a unique name for the app and then select Save.
        Note the following:
           Saving an app for the first time automatically publishes the app.
           On subsequent saves, select Publish and then select Publish this version to
           make your changes available.
       19. Close the Settings dialog.
       20. Select Back, and then select the browser tab that has the form editor open.
       21. Observe that the App ID property of the Canvas app control now has a value
        automatically filled in. Note the following:
           The form editor has a direct link with Power Apps Studio that was opened in
           another browser tab in an earlier step.
           The form editor has been listening for the App ID to be sent to it.
           The App ID was sent to it when the app was saved.
       22. In the Set Properties dialog box, select the Display tab, clear Display label on the
        form, and then select OK.
             If you already have a canvas app embedded on this form, a message is
             displayed that “Only one canvas app can be enabled on a form.” To add the
             new canvas app, you must first disable the current embedded canvas app.
             Then, enable the new embedded canvas app.
        23. On the Home tab, select Save, and then select Publish.
       After you have added an embedded canvas app to your model-driven form, share your
       embedded canvas app with other users. More information: Share an embedded canvas
       app.
       When users open a model-driven app (Unified Interface only) that includes the form you
       have modified, they see the embedded canvas app on the form. Changing the record
       displayed on the main form changes the data context that is passed to the form and the
       embedded app refreshes to show the relevant data.
       This article showed you how to get started with the embedding a canvas app in a
       model-driven form. You can further customize the embedded canvas app to connect
       and bring in data from various data sources. Use the Filter, Search, and LookUp
       functions and the context passed in from the host model-driven form to filter or find
       specific records in those data sources. Use the WYSIWYG canvas app editor to easily
       design the interface to match your requirements.
       See also
       Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form  
       Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form  
       Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form  
       Customize the screen size and orientation of a canvas app embedded on a model-
       driven form  
       Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app  
       ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions  
       Share an embedded canvas app  
       Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps  
       Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public
       preview release to latest  
       Share an embedded canvas app
       Article • 10/14/2022
       This article explains what's needed to share an embedded canvas app that you have
       already created.
       After you have created and added an embedded canvas app to a model-driven form
       you will need to take steps to ensure that all users that have access to the model-driven
       form also have access to the canvas app and the data that it uses. Please refer to the
       following guidelines:
          Sharing an embedded canvas app with Everyone in your organization is not
          supported with Microsoft Dataverse. Doing so might cause issues when rendering
          the app. Instead, share your embedded canvas app with a security group or
          specific users. More information: Share an app
          Ensure that users have appropriate permissions for any Microsoft Dataverse tables
          that your embedded canvas app uses. Specifically add read privilege for the
          Canvas App table located on the Customization tab of the security role editor.
          More information: Manage table permissions
          Ensure that users have appropriate permission for data on any cloud services that
          your embedded canvas app uses, such as SharePoint or OneDrive. The steps to
          share are specific to each cloud service and beyond the scope of Power Apps.
        ７ Note
        Currently, you must explicitly share canvas apps through app sharing. The Canvas
        App privilege in a security role does not share the embedded or standalone
        application.
       Embedded canvas apps are also solution aware. By default embedded canvas apps are
       created in the same solution as the host model-driven form. To move the embedded
       canvas app from one environment to another export and import embedded canvas apps
       as a part of a solution just like any other component.
       See also
       Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form
       Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
       Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
       Customize the screen size and orientation of a canvas app embedded on a model-
              driven form
              Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
              ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
              Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
              Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public
              preview release to latest
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Guidelines and troubleshooting for
       embedded canvas apps
       Article • 01/10/2024
       Guidance on embedding canvas apps
       This article provides guidance on working with embedded canvas apps as well as helpful
       tips to troubleshoot any issues faced.
         Embedded canvas apps are only supported with Unified Interface model-driven
         apps.
         Only three embedded canvas apps can be enabled for each form with Web, and
         one for Tablet and Phone client types.
         Multiple embedded canvas apps can be added to the form, but can only enable
         three at a time for Web and one at a time for Tablet and Phone client types.
         If more than three embedded canvas apps are enabled with the Web client type on
         a model-driven app form the error message shows as follows "You have more than
         three canvas apps with Web form factor, the maximum is three for this form factor.
         The number of canvas apps are limited to three for Web and one for Tablet and
         Phone form factors."
         To enable or disable an embedded canvas app see Enable an embedded canvas
         app and Disable an embedded canvas app.
         We recommend that you have a single embedded canvas app for each form tab.
         When adding an embedded canvas app to a model-driven form always use a
         required column that is guaranteed to have a value. If your column doesn't have a
         value your embedded canvas app won't refresh in response to any change in data
         on the host model-driven form.
         Publishing a model-driven form doesn't also publish the embedded canvas app.
           Embedded canvas apps must be published independent of the host model-
           driven form. More information: Publish an app.
         If opening Power Apps Studio to create or edit an embedded canvas app via the
         Customize button in the canvas app control properties is blocked due to a web
         browser pop-up blocker, you must enable the make.powerapps.com site or
         temporarily disable the pop-up blocker and then select Customize again.
         Embedded canvas apps aren't displayed when creating a new row since they need
         a row context to be passed to them.
         The ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item object is read-only.
                    To write back data, you must use the Dataverse connector. More information:
                    Microsoft Dataverse
                 Embedded canvas apps can only be created via the host model-driven form.
                 When viewing a model-driven form with an embedded canvas app, if an error
                 message reads "It looks like you don’t have access to this app" ask its owner to
                 share it with you" make sure that the author has shared the embedded canvas app
                 with you. More information: Share an embedded canvas app.
                 Adding a canvas app on the subgrid control is no longer available.
                    In the preview release, makers were able to add a canvas app on a subgrid
                    control. With canvas app embedding on model-driven forms now generally
                    available, adding an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form is
                    streamlined to the column.
                    This makes it easier for makers since they don't have to decide up front whether
                    to pass the current (main form) row as data context or a list of rows related to
                    the current (main form) row.
                    Makers always start with a column and can access both the current (main form)
                    row or a list of rows related to the current (main form) row.
                    To access the list of related rows in the canvas app, makers can use the
                    Dataverse connector and Filter function with the Improve data sources
                    experience and Dataverse views   capability enabled in the canvas app.
                    For example, to access the Active Contacts view of the Contacts table, makers
                    can use: Filter(Contacts, 'Contacts (Views)'.'Active Contacts').
                    Existing canvas apps that use the subgrid control will continue to work.
                    However, we recommend that you migrate these apps to use a column instead.
                    More information: Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms
                    that use a list of rows related to the current (main form) row for details.
            Enable an embedded canvas app
               1. Select the column that is customized to display as an embedded canvas app.
               2. In the Column Properties dialog, select the Controls tab.
               3. In the list of controls select Canvas app and then select the Web option.
               4. Select OK.
            Disable an embedded canvas app
               1. Select the Column that is customized to display as an embedded canvas app.
               2. In the Column Properties dialog, select the Controls tab.
               3. In the list of controls, select the default control and then select the Web option.
               4. Select OK.
       Saving data in an embedded canvas app
         A save event made from a model-driven app, such as selecting the Save button on
         the main form command bar, doesn’t save changes made in the embedded canvas
         app.
         To save changes made in an embedded canvas app, use the Dataverse connector.
         The ModelDrivenFormIntegration control OnDataRefresh action should only be
         used to refresh data within the embedded canvas app. We don’t recommend that
         the OnDataRefresh action is used to save changes within the embedded canvas
         app.
       Known issues and limitations with embedded
       canvas apps
       Limitations
         The canvas app custom control is only supported for use with the Web client type.
         Currently, the Phone and Tablet client types aren't supported.
         The Canvas App privilege in a security role can't be used to grant app users access
         to either an embedded or standalone canvas app. For more information on sharing
         an embedded canvas app, go to: Share an embedded canvas app.
         If you write back the same data that is being displayed in the host model-driven
         form, the form will continue to display old data until it's refreshed. An easy way to
         do that is to use the RefreshForm method.
         Offline and device capability controls like barcode scanning, capturing photos from
         device, or attaching files aren't supported in embedded canvas apps.
       The ModelDrivenFormIntegration control doesn't provide
       a value for columns of a related table
       For example, when the ModelDrivenFormIntegration control is connected to the
       Accounts table, using ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.’Primary Contact’.’Full Name’
       won't return a value.
       To access columns of a related table, makers can use either of the expressions listed
       here: - LookUp(Accounts, Account =
       GUID(First(ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Data).ItemId)).'Primary Contact'.'Full Name'
       - ItemId is empty at authoring time but will have a value at runtime. - LookUp(Accounts,
      Account = ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.Account).'Primary Contact'.'Full Name' (This
      expression is easier to read, but the previous expression will perform slightly better.)
      Embedded canvas app doesn’t render correctly
      You can build your canvas app to be responsive, which refers to the ability of an app to
      automatically align to different screen sizes and form factors to use the available screen
      space sensibly. Depending on whether your app is built to be responsive or not, we
      recommend different settings to ensure that your canvas app might render correctly
      within the field on the model-driven app form. If you're experiencing additional
      whitespace or scroll bars around your canvas app, we recommend checking the
      following in your app.
      For responsive apps:
        Disable the Scale to fit option. This allows your app to scale according to the
        dimensions and properties you have set for your app. An embedded canvas app
        might not render correctly within the field on the model-driven app form, such as
        additional whitespace or scroll bars around the canvas app.
      For nonresponsive apps:
        We recommend that you enable the Scale to fit option. This helps the app to
        resize to fit the available space.
      In both scenarios, ensure that the App Name property value is set and correctly defined
      in the embedded canvas app control.
      Embedded canvas app doesn't respect height
      The Form field height property isn't respected by the canvas app component. When
      embedded, the dimensions of the canvas app component respect the aspect ratio set on
      the canvas app. Because the aspect ratio is fixed, the height of the canvas app
      component is calculated relative to the width of the app. The width of the app is
      determined based on the horizontal space available in the model-driven app. If you
      would like to make adjustments to the height of the canvas app component, we
      recommend customizing the aspect ratio on your canvas app. Note that to customize
      the aspect ratio, the app must be in tablet layout.
      Enable scale to fit
      By default, canvas apps have the scale to fit option enabled.
       1. Open the canvas app that you’re embedding on a model-driven app form for
        editing.
       2. In Power Apps studio, select File > Settings > Screen size + orientation.
       3. Under Advanced Settings, set Scale to fit to On.
      The App Name property value is missing or is incorrectly defined
      To resolve this issue, choose the correct option:
        Managed solutions: If the solution was imported into an environment as a
        managed solution, follow these steps:
          1. Sign into Power Apps and go to the development environment where you
           originally created your embedded canvas app. This is also the environment
           where the solution was exported.
          2. Open the unmanaged solution that includes the canvas app, and then find
           the canvas app in the list of solution components. Copy the canvas app
           Name exactly as it appears in the components list. For example,
           contoso_flooringestimatesapp_624d7.
          3. In the same solution, edit the model-driven app that has the embedded
           canvas app control, and then set the canvas App Name to the embedded
           canvas app control using the value from the previous step. More information:
           Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
          4. Export the solution from the development environment and then import the
           solution into your target environment.
        Unmanaged solutions: If the solution was imported into an environment as an
        unmanaged solution, edit the model-driven app that has the embedded canvas
        app control, and then follow similar steps as described for a managed solution to
        set the canvas App Name property.
      Embedded canvas app control loads the canvas app from a
      different environment
      When a solution that contains a model-driven app with an embedded canvas app is
      imported into a target environment, the control loads the canvas app from the source
      environment (where the solution was exported). The control should load the canvas app
      from the target (current) environment.
      This issue occurs because the app user doesn't have read access to the CanvasApp
      Extended Metadata table in the target (current) environment. To resolve this issue, add
      the user to a security role used for the app that has read access to the CanvasApp
      Extended Metadata table. More information: Grant read privileges for the CanvasApp
      Extended Metadata table
      Error message: "You don’t have read privileges for the Canvas App
      entity. Please contact your administrator"
      The error message is displayed on the model-driven app form where the embedded
      canvas app should appear.
      This issue occurs because the app user doesn't have read access to the CanvasApp
      Extended Metadata table. To resolve this issue, add the user to a security role used for
      the app that has read access to the CanvasApp Extended Metadata table.
      Grant read privileges for the CanvasApp Extended Metadata table
       1. In Power Apps, select the environment, and then on the left navigation pane select
        Apps.
       2. Select the app you want, select …, and then select Share.
       3. On the left pane, select the app, and then select Manage security roles.
       4. Open the security role assigned to the app, such as the Basic User security role.
                 5. Select the Custom Entities tab, and set organization scope read privileges for the
                    CanvasApp Extended Metadata table.
                 6. Select Save and Close to close the security role window.
              See also
              Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form
              Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
              Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
              Customize the screen size and orientation of a canvas app embedded on a model-
              driven form
              Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
              ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
              Share an embedded canvas app
              Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public
              preview release to latest
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
         Migrate embedded canvas apps on model-
         driven forms
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
            ） Important
            With the latest release, embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms are generally
            available. Any embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using the public
            preview release should be migrated to new embedded canvas apps created using the
            latest release. Support for embedded canvas apps on model-driven forms created using
            the public preview release will soon be deprecated.
         To migrate an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form created using the public preview
         release to the latest, makers first need to create a new embedded canvas app using the latest
         release. Makers can then copy over the controls from the existing embedded canvas app to the
         new one, add required data sources and update broken references, if any. Detailed steps are
         provided below.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Open the embedded canvas app created using the public preview release for editing in
              Power Apps Studio. For steps on editing a canvas app, go to: Edit a canvas app.
            3. In a new browser tab, follow the steps to add a new embedded canvas app on a model-
              driven form.
            4. Copy the controls from the embedded canvas app created using the public preview
              release to the new embedded canvas app, one screen at a time using these steps:
               a. Select the browser tab from Step 2, that has the embedded canvas app, created using
                 the public preview release, open in Power Apps Studio.
               b. Select a screen to copy controls from.
               c. Use Ctrl + A to select all controls on the screen.
               d. Use Ctrl + C to copy all selected controls.
               e. Select the browser tab from Step 3, that has the new embedded canvas app created
                 using the latest release.
                f. Select a screen or add a new one.
               g. Use Ctrl + V to paste the controls on the selected screen.
               h. Repeat the steps to copy each screen.
            5. When you finish copying all the screens, select the browser tab from Step 3, that has the
              new embedded canvas app created using the latest release.
            6. Update all the places where the row from the host model-driven form is being accessed.
              Replace First(ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Data) with
        ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.
       7. Add any missing data sources in the new embedded canvas app.
       8. Update all broken references in the new embedded canvas app.
       9. When you finish making changes, select the File tab, and then select Save.
      10. To make your changes available to users, select Publish and then select Publish this
        version.
     Migrating embedded canvas apps on model-driven
     forms that use a list of rows related to the current
     (main form) row
     In the preview release, to embed a canvas app on a model-driven form, makers had to decide
     up front if they wanted to pass the current (main form) row as data context or a list of rows
     related to the current (main form) row. They then had to add the canvas app control to either
     the column or sub-grid control.
     With the latest release, adding an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form is simplified
     and streamlined to the column only. Makers can still easily access the list of related rows
     directly in the canvas app using the Common Data Service connector.
     To migrate an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form that uses a list of rows related to
     the current (main form) row, follow these steps.
       1. Follow the steps in the section above to migrate embedded canvas apps on model-driven
        forms created using the public preview release to the latest.
       2. Using the Common Data Service connector, add a data source for the related table to the
        app. To learn how add a data source in a canvas app refer to Add a data connection to a
        canvas app in Power Apps.
       3. When using the data source of the related table for a control such as Gallery or Data
        table, use the Filter function to filter the rows to the ones that are related to the current
        (main form) row. The current (main form) row is available via
        ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.
          ７ Note
          The embedded canvas app has full access to row from the host model-driven form
          via ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item. As an example, to get the value of a column
          with the name accountnumber and display name Account Number, you can use
          ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.accountnumber or
          ModelDrivenFormIntegration.Item.'Account Number'.
           4. With recent updates Microsoft Dataverse now also provides support to use table views as
             a filter. Go to this blog post for details: Improved data source selection and Dataverse
             views   .
         Related articles
         Embed a canvas app on a model-driven form
         Add an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
         Edit a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
         Customize the screen size and orientation of a canvas app embedded on a model-driven form
         Perform predefined actions on the host form from within an embedded canvas app
         ModelDrivenFormIntegration control's properties and actions
         Share an embedded canvas app
         Guidelines on working with embedded canvas apps
         Last updated on 02/21/2026
         List of controls available for model-driven
         apps
         Controls allow app users to visualize data within table columns in addition to enabling
         interaction with them.
         Most controls are configured for a table column, but some controls, like the grid control, can
         be configured for the table.
         Using controls in the form designer
         To use these controls in the form designer:
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
              More and then select the item you want.
            3. Select the required table and then select the Forms area.
            4. Select the main form to be edited.
            5. Select the column or section where you want to add the control.
            6. In the right properties pane, select + Component to display the available controls, and
              then select the control you want.
                 ７ Note
                 Different controls are available depending on the column or grid type. For example,
                 star rating controls are only available for whole number columns.
            7. Select the devices (web, tablet, and phone) you want the control to appear on.
            8. Configure the values for each property.
            9. Select Done when you’re done configuring the control.
         The following descriptions explain each control you can use on forms.
         Grid controls
         Grid controls can be configured at the following levels:
              Table. When you configure a grid control for a table, all views for the table use the grid
              control. For more information, see Configure a grid control for a table.
              Form. Subgrids added to a form use a grid control to control the behavior of the subgrid.
         Subgrid
         The read-only subgrid allows you to present a view of data related to the current record where
         users can view and open the record from within the grid. More information: Add and configure
         a subgrid component on a form
         Editable grid
         With editable grids, users can do rich in-line editing of records directly from views and subgrids
         whether they're using a web app, tablet, or phone. More information: Make model-driven app
         grids (lists) editable using the editable grid control
         Power Apps grid control
         The Power Apps grid control represents the next evolution of the Power Apps grid control,
         allowing users to view, open, and edit records from views and subgrids. By default, the Power
         Apps grid control is read-only but you can configure it to be editable.
         More information: Power Apps grid control
         Configure a grid control for a table
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Open solution explorer, expand Entities, and then select the table you want, such as the
              account table.
            3. Select the Controls tab, and then select the grid you want for the table.
            4. Depending on the grid control, specify the values you want, Save and then Publish the
              customization.
         Display controls
         Calendar
      The Calendar control control displays scheduled activities and their associated details in a
      calendar. You can view, create, and delete your activities in a day, week, or month view. More
      information: Add the calendar control to tables
      Canvas app
      An embedded canvas app includes rich data integration capabilities that bring in contextual
      data from the host model-driven form to the embedded canvas app. Display the data you want
      from a variety of sources right next to data from Microsoft Dataverse. More information: Add
      an embedded canvas app on a model-driven form
      External website
      Add inline frames (iframes) to a form to integrate content from another website within the
      form. More information: Add an iframe to a model-driven app main form
      HTML and image web resource
      Display an HTML page or image file on a form via a web resource. More information: View and
      edit a web resource on a form
      Knowledge search
          Requires Dynamics 365 Customer Service app. Add a Knowledge Base Search control to a form
          to make it easy for users in your organization to find knowledge articles so they can answer
          common customer questions and resolve their issues right from the records, without having to
          switch to a different application. More information: Add the Knowledge Base Search control to
          forms
          Quick view
          The quick view control displays data from a row that you select in a lookup on the form. You
          define the data displayed in the control by using a quick view form. The data displayed isn't
          editable, but when the primary column is included in the quick view form, it becomes a link to
          open the related row. For more information, see Model-driven app quick view control
          properties.
          Timeline control
          Provide a timeline of recent, relevant news articles and Twitter tweets for an account. More
          information: Set up the timeline control
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
           Property                           Description
           CC_Timeline_Title                  Property to map for the title of each timeline item.
           CC_Timeline_Title_Desc             Description for Title.
           CC_Timeline_Label1                 Column to be displayed below the title of timeline item.
           Property                         Description
           CC_Timeline_Label1_Desc          Description for Label 1.
           CC_Timeline_Label2               Column to be displayed after Label 1.
           CC_Timeline_Label2_Desc          Description for Label 2.
           CC_Timeline_Label3               Column to be displayed after Label 2.
           CC_Timeline_Label3_Desc          Description for Label 3.
           CC_Timeline_Label4               Column to be displayed after Label 3.
           CC_Timeline_Label4_Desc          Description for Label 4.
           CC_Timeline_Label5               Column to be displayed after Label 4.
           CC_Timeline_Label5_Desc          Description for Label 5.
           CC_Timeline_Timestamp            Column to use for sorting timeline in reverse chronological order.
           CC_Timeline_Timestamp_Desc       Description for Timestamp.
           CC_Timeline_Group                Column to map for grouping timeline.
           CC_Timeline_Group_Desc           Description for Group column.
           CC_Timeline_GroupOrder           Order of the group the item belongs to relative to other groups
                                            (assign values 1, 2, 3, and so on for groups to be displayed). The
                                            group will be displayed in ascending value of group values assigned.
           CC_Timeline_GroupOrder_Desc      Description for Group Order column.
           CC_Timeline_URL                  URL column to map for displaying the URL of each timeline item.
           CC_Timeline_URL_Desc             Description for URL column.
           CC_Timeline_ThumbnailURL         Column to map for thumbnail of image/icon to display for each item.
           CC_Timeline_ThumbnailURL_Desc    Description for the ThumbnailURL column.
           CC_Timeline_Filter               Column to map for timeline filter.
           CC_Timeline_Filter_Desc          Description for Filter.
           CC_Timeline_Footer               Web resource to display as the footer of the timeline.
           CC_Timeline_Footer_Desc          Description for Footer column.
          Input controls
     Checkbox
     Use the checkbox control to let users choose between two values by checking or clearing a
     check box. Configure it by using yes/no choice columns.
     Option set
     The option set control presents a set of choices for your users to choose from when entering
     data. It is made available by default when introducing a choice column into a form. More
     information: Choices
     Pen input
     Use the pen input control to capture written input such as signatures. The pen input control
     can be configured for multiline text columns for use with web, tablet, and phone clients.
           ） Important
           The minimum recommended Maximum Length specified for the column this control
           maps to is 15000.
                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
          Property   Description
          PenMode Specify PenMode!Draw, PenMode!Erase, or PenMode!Select to determine what happens
                     when a user drags a pointing device in a pen control.
         Rich text editor
         The rich text editor control provides the app user a WYSIWYG editing area for formatting text.
         The control's input and output format is HTML. The control allows copied rich text, such as
         from a web browser or Word, to be pasted into the control. It can be configured with text
         columns. More information: Add the rich text editor control to a model-driven app
         Toggle
         The toggle control allows users to choose between binary values, such as on/off and yes/no, by
         toggling the button. It can be configured with yes/no choice columns.
         AI Builder
         Business card reader
     Use the AI Builder business card reader control to detect business cards and extract their
     information. You can take photos directly in the component or load images that you've taken.
     More information: Use the business card reader component in model-driven apps
     Power BI
     Power BI report
     Embed a Power BI report in a model-driven app dashboard. More information: Create or edit a
     Power BI embedded system dashboard
     More components controls
     Some components aren't displayed in the default Components list in the form designer but
     can be added to the list by selecting Get more components.
     Form component
     The form component control lets users edit information of a related table record directly from
     another table’s form. More information: Edit related table records directly from another table’s
     main form
     Collaboration controls
     Collaboration controls give you the power to simplify your user’s workflow collaboration. Build
     model-driven apps that allow users to work with approvals, files, meetings, notes, and tasks
     from Microsoft 365 and Microsoft Teams without switching the context from app to app. More
     information: Collaboration controls
     Legacy controls
     Timer control
     The timer control shows your users how much time is available to complete an action in the
     resolution of an active row or how much time has passed since the time to complete the action
     has passed. More information: Model-driven app timer control overview
     News control
      Only available in classic.
      Gain valuable insights from the latest news about your customers, competitors, and contacts.
      The news control delivers relevant news from Bing News. More information: Set up and use the
      news control
      Next steps
      Tutorial: Use custom controls for data visualizations
      Last updated on 04/07/2026
        Learn how to add and configure a sensitivity
        label on a form to use with emails
        Configure sensitivity labels for emails in model-driven apps, such as Dynamics Customer Service
        and Dynamics 365 Contact Center, to ensure email communications comply with your
        organization's policies and protect sensitive information across attachments, replies, and
        forwards.
        Prerequisites
             Create and configure sensitivity labels in the Microsoft Purview portal. For more
             information, see Create and configure sensitivity labels.
             An email server profile with Server-to-Server Authentication (Same Tenant) is configured
             for Exchange Online. Learn more in Connect to Exchange Online.
             Server side synchronization is set up for email. Learn more in Set up server-side
             synchronization for email.
             The Microsoft Entra ID user associated with the mailbox has access to the required
             sensitivity labels in Microsoft Purview. Learn more in Permissions in the Microsoft Purview
             portal.
        Enable email data sensitivity labels
        Before you add sensitivity labels to the email form, enable email data sensitivity labels in the
        environment.
        Perform the following steps:
           1. Sign in to Power Platform admin center   .
           2. In the left navigation pane, select Manage.
           3. In the Manage panel, select Environments.
           4. On the Environments page, choose an environment.
           5. In the command bar, select Settings.
           6. Expand Email, and then select Email settings.
           7. In Set Email data sensitivity labels, turn on the toggle for Enable data sensitivity labels for
             emails.
        Add the sensitivity label column to email form
        To display sensitivity labels in emails, add the Sensitivity label column and control to the email
        form in Power Apps.
        Perform the following steps:
           1. Sign in to Power Apps    and select your environment.
           2. In the navigation pane, select Solutions.
           3. Open the solution you want or create a new one.
           4. Select Objects on the left navigation pane, and then select Add existing > Table > Email >
             Next.
           5. Select Forms > Add existing form > Email (Main form) > Add.
           6. Open the main form, and then in the form designer, select Columns.
           7. Search for Sensitivity label.
           8. Drag the Sensitivity label column onto the form canvas.
           9. Select the Sensitivity label column on the form.
          10. In the Properties pane, select Components > More components.
          11. Search for and select Email sensitivity label control, and then select Add.
