Microsoft Power Apps documentation
Discover how to make the most of Power Apps with online training courses, docs, and videos
covering product capabilities and how-to articles. Learn how to quickly build low-code apps that
modernize processes and solve tough business challenges in your organization using Power Apps.

GET STARTED

W H AT ' S N E W

TRAINING

HOW-TO GUIDE

What is Power Apps?

What's new in Power Apps?

Power Apps training

Troubleshoot

Create and design
Try/Buy

Create apps

AI copilot capabilities

Try Power Apps

Choose an app type

Get started with AI copilot

Buy Power Apps

Use the Plan designer

Use the Plan designer

Create a canvas app

Overview of the new
experience (preview)

Create a model-driven app
Create a code app

Build apps through
conversation
Build pages with generative
pages
Add a Copilot control to a
canvas app (preview)

Create and manage
data
What is Microsoft Dataverse?

Use solutions
What are solutions?

Integrate with other
products
Visualize data with Power BI

Create and use tables and
metadata
Apply business logic
Create and use dataflows

Implement healthy application
lifecycle management (ALM)
using solutions

Get real-time insights with
Azure Synapse Link
Add and use apps in Teams

Deploy solutions using
pipelines

Best practices guidance
Power Apps coding guidelines
Collaborate and co-develop
apps

Administer and extend
Administer Power Apps
Use the Power Platform admin
center
Understand Power Apps
licensing
Understand security and
governance

Extend the data
platform

Extend model-driven
apps

Dataverse developer guide

Model-driven apps developer
guide

Work with data using code
Apply business logic using
code
Create client applications

Apply business logic using
client scripting
Use code components in
model-driven apps

Extend canvas apps
Canvas apps developer guide
Create and use custom
connectors
Develop offline-capable canvas
apps
Create and use canvas
components

Use
Use apps on mobile
devices

Use apps in web
browsers

Use apps in Teams

Install and use Power Apps
mobile

Understand basic navigation

Embed a canvas app as a
personal app

Search records

Embed a canvas app as a tab

Use Power Apps for Windows

View reports

Troubleshoot issues

Embed a model-driven app as
a tab
Embed a model-driven app as
a personal app

Related content
Power Platform

Power Automate

Power BI

One-stop learning resource for
Power Platform applications
and features, with admin,
developer, and guidance…

Create automated workflows
between your favorite apps
and services to synchronize
files, get notifications, collect…

Turn your unrelated sources of
data into coherent, visually
immersive, and interactive
insights.

Power Pages

Dynamics 365

Microsoft Azure

Design, host, and administer
secure, modern, and low-code
business websites.

Empower your organization
with the next generation of
CRM and ERP applications.

Learn how this ever-expanding
set of cloud computing
services can help your
organization meet its busines…

What is Power Apps?
Power Apps is a suite of apps, services, and connectors, as well as a data platform, that
provides a rapid development environment to build custom apps for your business needs. With
Power Apps, you can quickly build custom business apps that connect to your data stored
either in the underlying data platform (Microsoft Dataverse) or in many online and on-premises
data sources (such as SharePoint, Microsoft 365, Dynamics 365, SQL Server, and so on).

Apps built with Power Apps provide rich business logic and workflow capabilities to transform
your manual business operations into digital, automated processes. What's more, apps built
with Power Apps have a responsive design and can run seamlessly in browser and on mobile
devices (phone or tablet). Power Apps "democratizes" the business-app-building experience by
enabling users to create feature-rich, custom business apps without writing code.
Power Apps also provides an extensible platform that lets pro developers programmatically
interact with data and metadata, apply business logic, create custom connectors, and integrate
with external data.
Power Apps and Microsoft Copilot let you describe the app you want and AI designs it. Make
edits, add automation, and write code—all with Copilot in Power Apps.
For more information:
Try Power Apps for free
Watch videos on the Power Apps channel

on YouTube

Power Apps for app makers and creators
７ Note

Try the new Power Apps experience—an AI-native solution designed to simplify app
creation. Effortlessly automate workflows, connect data sources, and speed up
development, all without needing advanced coding skills. For more information, see
Overview of the New Power Apps experience (preview).
With Power Apps, you can create two types of apps: canvas and model-driven. For more
information, see Overview of creating apps in Power Apps.
To create an app, start with make.powerapps.com

.

Plans in Power Apps is a copilot-first development tool that lets you quickly create
comprehensive business solutions. Describe your business use case in natural language
and add relevant images, like business process flows or screenshots of legacy apps. For
more information, see Overview of plans.
Power Apps Studio is the app designer you use to build canvas apps. The app designer
makes creating apps feel more like building a slide deck in Microsoft PowerPoint. For
more information, see Generate an app from data.
App designer for model-driven apps lets you define the sitemap and add components to
build a model-driven app. For more information, see Design model-driven apps using
app designer.
Ready to convert your ideas into an app? Start here: Planning a Power Apps project.

Power Apps for app users
Run apps that you created, or that someone else created and shared with you, in a browser or
on mobile devices (phone or tablet). For more information, see:
Find and run apps
Run apps on Power Apps mobile

Power Apps for admins
Power Apps administrators can use the Power Platform admin center
(admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com

) to create and manage environments, view Dataverse

analytics, and get real-time, self-help recommendations and support for Power Apps and
Power Automate. For more information, see Administer Power Platform.

Power Apps for developers

Developers are app makers who write code to extend business app creation and customization.
Use code to create data and metadata, apply server-side logic with Azure functions, plug-ins,
and workflow extensions, apply client-side logic with JavaScript, integrate with external data by
using virtual tables and webhooks, build custom connectors, and embed apps into your
website experiences to create integrated solutions. For more information, see:
Dataverse developer
Model-driven apps developer
Canvas apps developer

Power Apps and Dynamics 365
Dynamics 365 apps (such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365 Customer Service, and
Dynamics 365 Marketing) also use the underlying Dataverse platform that Power Apps uses to
store and secure data. This feature enables you to build apps by using Power Apps and
Dataverse directly against your core business data already used within Dynamics 365, without
the need for integration. For more information, see Dynamics 365 and Dataverse.

Try Power Apps for free
You can build Power Apps for free. Sign in to Power Apps

. For more information, see Sign in

to Power Apps for the first time. Initially, you have access to the default environment. You can
build in your own developer environment with Dataverse by signing up for the Power Apps
Developer Plan

. For more information, see About the Power Apps Developer Plan.

You need a license to play the apps you make with Power Apps. You can play Power Apps for
free by signing up for a 30-day trial.

Request a Power Apps license
If you're a Power Apps user and want to run apps, request a Power Apps license while running
the app. For more information, see Request a Power Apps license.

Purchase Power Apps
To purchase Power Apps, go to Purchase Power Apps for detailed information.

Power Apps US Government plans

Power Apps US Government offers several plans designed for US government organizations to
address the unique and evolving requirements of the United States public sector. The Power
Apps GCC environment complies with federal requirements for cloud services, including
FedRAMP High, DoD DISA IL2, and requirements for criminal justice systems (CJI data types).
For more information, see Power Apps US Government.

Last updated on 11/18/2025

Explore Power Apps for free for 30 days
Get instant access to all Power Apps capabilities with a free 30-day trial. Whether you're new to
Power Apps or want to explore premium features, this trial unlocks everything you need to
build powerful business applications.
If you don't have a license for Power Apps, the trial plan gives temporary access to these
activities:
Extend the capabilities of Office 365 (SharePoint Online, Teams, Excel, and more)
Create and run canvas apps that connect to Microsoft Dataverse and over 200 other data
sources, including premium connectors and on-premises data.
Create and run model-driven apps
Automate workflows with Power Automate
Create and manage environments and Dataverse databases
If you have a Power Apps license or a license through Office 365, you already have access to
some of these features. However, the trial license temporarily expands your access to include
all features in the previous list. Learn what capabilities each type of license offers on the pricing
page

.

７ Note
If you're an administrator, see Purchase Power Apps for your organization or Power
Apps in your organization Q&A.
Starting January 2020, self-service purchase, subscription, and license management
capabilities for Power Platform products (Power BI, Power Apps, and Power
Automate) are available for commercial cloud customers in the United States. For
more information, including steps to enable or disable self-service purchasing in
your organization, see the Self-service purchase FAQ.

Need an account?
If you don't have a work or school account, create a free account with Microsoft Entra and
become a low-code developer with Power Apps. To keep building apps after the trial period,
opt in to the free Power Apps Developer Plan

.

Ready to get started?
1. Start your free trial now →

- Go to PowerApps.com and select Start free.

2. Enter your email. If your email isn't a work or school account, you're prompted to create a
free Microsoft Entra account by using this sign-up experience

.

If you want to evaluate Power Apps integrations with Microsoft 365, sign up for an Office 365
trial

account.

７ Note
If you don't have an organization account or aren't part of a tenant or organization
account, you can establish a developer's account through the Microsoft Developer
Program.

Identify your current license
Compare license options: Learn what capabilities each type of license offers on the pricing
page

to choose the best plan for your needs.

1. Sign in to Power Apps

using your work or school credentials.

） Important
You can't sign in by using a personal email address, such as one that ends in
outlook.com, hotmail.com, or gmail.com. For more information, see What email
address can I use? later in this article.
2. Select the gear icon in the upper-right corner, and then select Plan(s).

Upgrade an existing license
To start a free 30-day trial of Power Apps per user plan from an existing license, sign in to
Power Apps

. Then, try any feature that requires a premium Power Apps license. For example,

select the gear icon near the upper-right corner, select Admin center, and select New

environment near the upper-right corner. Follow the prompts to complete the sign-up
process.

Get a license from scratch
Whether or not you have a license for Power Apps, start a free 30-day trial per user plan by
following these steps:
1. Open the Power Apps site

, and then select Try free.

If you're using a phone, select the menu in the top-right corner, and then select Try free.
2. In the middle of the screen, select Pricing, and then select Start free trial.
3. In the dialog box, enter your work or school email address, and then select Submit.
） Important
For more information, see What email address can I use? later in this article.
4. If a dialog box indicates that Power Apps recognizes your organizational credentials,
follow the prompts to finish signing in.

Otherwise, follow the prompts to check your email, verify your email address, provide
more information if necessary, and then select Start.
You see the following message if your admin disables free trials.

７ Note
For more information, including the steps to enable or disable trial licenses in your
organization, see Block trial licenses commands.

FAQ
What email address can I use?
You can use a work or school email address, backed by Microsoft Entra ID, to sign up for a trial
license. If you use a different kind of address, you might experience one of the symptoms in
this table.
ﾉ

Expand table

Symptom / error message

Cause and workaround

Personal email addresses (for example,
@gmail.com email address)

Power Apps doesn't support email addresses provided by
consumer email services or telecommunications providers.

You receive a message like the following
during signup:

To complete signup, try again using an email address
assigned by your work or school.

You entered a personal email address:
Please enter your work email address so
we can securely store your company's
data.

or
That looks like a personal email
address. Enter your work address so we
can connect you with others in your

Symptom / error message

Cause and workaround

company. And don’t worry. We won’t share
your address with anyone.

.gov or .mil addresses

Power Apps doesn't support .gov or .mil addresses at this
time.

You receive a message like the following
during signup:
Power Apps unavailable: Power Apps is
not available for users with .gov or
.mil email addresses at this time. Use
another work email address or check back
later.

or
We can't finish signing you up. It looks
like Microsoft Power Apps isn't
currently available for your work or
school.

Email address is not an Office 365 ID

Your organization signs in to Office 365 and other Microsoft
services with IDs other than email addresses. For example,

You receive a message like the following
during signup:

your email address might be Nancy.Smith@contoso.com,
but your ID is nancys@contoso.com.

We can't find you at contoso.com. Do you
Try signing in with that, and if it

To complete signup, use the ID that your organization has
assigned to you for signing in to Office 365 or other
Microsoft services. If you don't know what this is, contact

doesn't work, contact your IT

your IT administrator.

use a different ID at work or school?

department.

Does the cloud environment I use Power Apps in allow the
use of trial licenses?
Power Apps trial licenses are available only in the Azure commercial cloud. They aren't available
in Azure Government or Microsoft Azure China clouds.

What happens when my trial expires?
You're prompted to request an extension of the trial or purchase a plan 30 days after the trial
starts. You can extend the trial two more times (30 days each)—with a maximum trial period of
90 days. You can find details about all plans on the pricing page

.

If you don't extend the trial or purchase a plan but you still have another kind of license, you
can use all the features of Power Apps that your other license provides. Any data in Dataverse
remains unchanged, and any app or flow that uses Dataverse continues to run if your license
supports them. If you try to use premium Power Apps features but your existing license doesn't
support them (for example, modify a schema or entities in Dataverse), you are prompted to
purchase a plan.

More questions?
Visit the Power Apps community

Last updated on 01/13/2026

.

Request a Power Apps license for
yourself
Article • 05/08/2023

You can request a Power Apps license from your admin directly using Power Apps.

Request a license
If you don't have a license and are trying to open apps made with Power Apps, you'll see
the options in the following image. Select Request license to submit a license request to
your admin.
７ Note
The options in the following image may differ depending on whether you've
exhausted any Power Apps trials.

Request a license through a trial
If you're already in an active Power Apps trial, you can request a license by selecting
Request license near the top of the page.

Wait for a response from your admin
After you request a license, you'll see a banner at the top of the page that confirms that
your request was sent, and that it might take a few days for your admin to respond to
the request.
If you're using a Power Apps trial, you can continue to use the trial while you wait for
your request to be approved.
After your admin has reviewed your request, you'll receive an email notification
indicating whether the request was approved.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Request Power Apps licenses for your
app users
Article • 06/30/2023

As a Power Apps maker, you can create an app that requires a license for use. For
example, if you create an app with premium components or connectors, users must
have an appropriate Power Apps license to use it.
When you share a canvas app or model-driven app that contains premium components,
select Request licenses. The request is submitted to your admin for approval. You can't
request licenses for security groups or distribution lists.

After your admin has reviewed your request, you'll receive an email notification
indicating whether the request was approved or denied.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Overview of creating apps in Power Apps
Power Apps is a high-productivity development platform for business apps. It has these major
components:
Plans
Copilot
Canvas apps
Model-driven apps
Microsoft Dataverse
Let's learn more about each of these components.
７ Note
Try the new Power Apps experience—an AI-native solution designed to simplify app
creation. Effortlessly automate workflows, connect data sources, and speed up development,
all without needing advanced coding skills. For more information, see Overview of the New
Power Apps experience (preview)

Plans
Plans in Power Apps is a copilot-first development tool that helps you rapidly build end-to-end
business solutions. Simply describe your business scenario in natural language and include
relevant visuals, such as process flows or screenshots of existing systems. Plans then generates a
complete Power Platform solution tailored to your requirements, including Microsoft Dataverse
tables, canvas apps, model-driven apps, Power Pages sites, Power Automate flows, and Copilot
Studio agents.

Create apps using Copilot
Copilot in Power Apps lets you to quickly create apps by simply describing your business
requirements in natural language. Copilot automatically generates both the app and its data
model—no coding needed. Users can interact with your app using everyday language, making
the experience intuitive and engaging. For more information, see Copilot and AI features in
Power Apps

Canvas apps
Canvas apps start with your user experience. You craft a highly tailored interface with the power
of a blank canvas and connect it to your choice of more than 200 data sources. You can build
canvas apps for web, mobile, and tablet applications.
Canvas apps give you the flexibility to arrange the user experience and interface the way you
want it. Let your creativity and business sense guide how you want your apps to look and feel.
You can start to build your app from Microsoft tools where your data lives, such as:
From a SharePoint list
From a Power BI dashboard
Creating a canvas app is easy. With Power Apps, you can find or create your app in several ways:
From a Dataverse source
From data in a SharePoint List
From Excel data
From a blank canvas
Via Marketplace
In addition to creating apps in Power Apps, you can also create apps directly within Microsoft
Teams by using Power Apps. For more information, see Create apps in Microsoft Teams by using
Power Apps.

Model-driven apps
Model-driven apps start with your data model. You build up from the shape of your core business
data and processes in the Dataverse to model forms, views, and other components. Model-driven
apps automatically generate a great UI that's responsive across devices.
When you create a model-driven app, you can use all the power of the Dataverse to rapidly
configure your forms, business rules, and process flows. You create a model-driven app from the
Power Apps site.
As part of the custom page public preview, you can add the new page type based on canvas into
a new or existing model-driven app. This addition brings the power and flexibility of a canvas
experience within the model-driven app. Custom pages allow
Full control over page layout

Out of box controls and custom components
Power Apps connectors
Low-code authoring
Getting started with model-driven apps is simple. You can begin with these topics:
Create an app
Create and design forms
Create or edit views
Create or edit a system chart
Create or edit dashboards
Add security
Add business logic
Converging model and canvas using custom page (preview)

Dataverse
Dataverse is the data platform that comes with Power Apps and allows you to store and model
business data. It's the platform on which Dynamics 365 apps (such as Dynamics 365 Sales,
Customer Service, Field Service, Marketing, and Project Service Automation) are built. If you're a
Dynamics 365 customer, your data is already in Dataverse.
Dataverse allows you to securely store and manage data within a set of standard and custom
tables. You can add columns to those tables when you need them.
Start working with Dataverse by reading these topics:
Create a custom table
Manage columns
Create custom choices
Create a business rule

Planning a Power Apps app or project
It's easy to begin building your first app. Simply sign in to Power Apps

. For more information,

see Sign in to Power Apps for the first time. If you're interested in exploring even more
functionality, such as creating environments, we have a 30-day trial or Developer Plan.
If you're new to Power Apps and want to learn about how to convert your ideas into a fully
working solution, start with Planning a Power Apps project.

Last updated on 11/18/2025

Sign in to Power Apps
Sign in to Power Apps at https://make.powerapps.com

to create, edit, or play an app.

This article shows you how to access Power Apps for the first time, choose the right
environment, and navigate different authentication options including Azure B2B and Microsoft
Account sign-in.
To create canvas apps, you need the environment maker predefined security role.
If you don't have a work or school account, you can sign up for a trial account. For information,
see Explore Power Apps for free for 30 days.
What you'll learn:
How to choose the right environment for your work
Different sign-in options including Azure B2B and Microsoft Account
How to access environments and create your first app
For more information about the Power Apps

home page, see Get started with Power Apps.

Choose an environment
When you create an app, a flow, a data connection, or a table in Microsoft Dataverse, most
work in Power Apps happens in a specific environment. Environments set boundaries between
types of work. For example, an organization can use separate environments for different
departments. Many organizations use environments to separate apps in development from
those ready for use. You might have access to multiple environments or just one. If you have
the right permissions, you can create your own environment.
To check which environment you're in, find the environment switcher near the right side of the
header.

With the environment selector, environments are grouped into two types: Build apps with
Dataverse and Other environments. Select Filter to filter the list of environments by your role,
data platform (Dataverse or none), and environment type, like production or sandbox.



Environments where you have system administrator or system customizer security role
membership appear under Build apps with Dataverse. The Other environments list shows
environments where you have only environment maker or editing privileges to at least one
canvas app in the environment.
 Tip
Hover over an environment in the list to see its details.

Filter environments by role
ﾉ

Expand table

Filter role

Power Platform role or description

Admin

System administrator
Environment admin

Maker with data

System administrator

access

System customizer

Maker without full
data access

Environment maker (with or without Dataverse)

Shared app

User without a maker-level security role assigned but with edit permission to at

contributor

least one canvas app in the environment

） Important
To see the environment list in the environment switcher in Power Apps, you need the
Environment Maker, System Customizer, or System Administrator security role in the
environment. For information about predefined security roles, see Predefined
security roles in the Microsoft Power Platform admin guide.
Make sure you're in the right environment before you create an app, a flow, or a
similar component. You can't easily move components from one environment to
another.

７ Note
Every member in an organization can use the default environment. Like any
environment, users can see apps where they have enough privileges to use an app.
All users with the Environment Maker security role in an environment can see all
model-driven apps in that environment, including the default environment. For more
information, see Model-driven app privileges to view and access apps.
When you create an app in one environment, you can't see it from another
environment. People who want to run your app need access to the environment
where you created it.
For more information about environments, see Environments overview.

Sign in by using Azure B2B collaboration

７ Note
A resource tenant is the Microsoft Entra tenant where an app is expected to exist,
and where the user is expected to create and edit the app. For Azure B2B makers,
this tenant is different from the tenant their account resides.
A home tenant is where the user's account resides and authenticates against.
To create and edit apps in a resource tenant, an admin must follow these steps to
give Azure B2B users the prerequisite privileges to build apps.
When a user signs into Power Apps

, they sign into their home tenant - the Microsoft Entra

tenant where their credentials are provisioned. After signing in, the user can change the
directory they intend to build apps in by selecting the Switch directory link as shown here:

The switch directory link opens Power Apps settings with a Directories tab that lists all the
Microsoft Entra tenants where the user is a member or an Azure B2B guest. Selecting Switch
signs out of the current tenant and then signs into the selected tenant in Power Apps

.

Frequently asked questions
As an Azure B2B maker, why can't I share apps?
The Power Apps sharing experience requires users to have permissions in the tenant when the
Azure Microsoft Entra ID external collaboration settings lets guest user access to "(most
inclusive)". Azure B2B makers without enough privileges see the following error dialog when
sharing.

Can I work in Power Apps in both my home tenant and a resource
tenant?
Yes, but only in separate browser sessions. For example, Microsoft Edge can be open in its
standard mode, and you can start a separate session in a new InPrivate window.
If you open multiple tabs in the same browser session, you can only access resources in
the most recently signed-in tenant.

Can I sign in to Power Apps, in a resource tenant with GDAP?
No, https://make.powerapps.com

doesn't recognize Granular delegated admin privileges

(GDAP), but the Power Platform admin center does.

Sign in by using Microsoft Account (preview)

Anyone can build Power Apps, even if they don't have a work or school account. Sign up for a
Dynamics 365 Sales trial by using a Microsoft Account
to Power Apps

and then use that account to sign in

.

During the 30-day trial period, you can make and play with as many apps as you like. You can
also build apps with Dataverse or other premium connectors. However, if you plan to run these
apps beyond the trial period or share them with others, you need to create a (free) Microsoft
Entra account.
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers
can get early access and provide feedback.

Where can I get a license with Power Apps use rights for my
Microsoft Account?
The Dynamics 365 Sales free trial includes Power Apps use rights, along with other Dynamics
and Power Platform use rights. You can sign up here: Dynamics 365 free trial

.

７ Note
Not all Power Apps free licenses support Microsoft Account sign-up. The list of free
licenses that allow free sign-up is expected to grow over time.

How do I create model-driven apps and use Dataverse?
Select or create an environment with Dataverse. You can create Developer environments with
Dataverse for free.
1. Sign in to Power Apps

.

2. Select the environment picker.
3. In the Need your own environment? prompt, select Try it now to create an environment
with Dataverse.

How do I access Power Platform admin center?
Power Platform admin center (https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com

) doesn't support

Microsoft Account sign-in. However, your Microsoft Account is associated with a Microsoft
Entra tenant and you can provision a Microsoft Entra based identity to use in the Power
Platform admin center.
1. Follow the steps under How do I create a Microsoft Entra identity with the same
administrative privileges as my Microsoft Account?
2. Using the newly created Microsoft Entra identity, sign in to
https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com

.

How do I create a Microsoft Entra identity with the same
administrative privileges as my Microsoft Account?
1. Sign in to https://portal.azure.com

.

2. Search for Microsoft Entra ID.
3. Add a new user.
4. Associate or add an Azure subscription to your Microsoft Entra tenant. For administrative
purposes, assign the same admin role as your Microsoft Account has in Microsoft Entra
ID, such as Power Platform or Dynamics 365 admin.

The free license assigned to my Microsoft Account expired,
how can I access Power Apps?

If your Microsoft Account is associated with a Microsoft Entra tenant, you can sign in to Power
Apps

and edit your apps. However, without an active license you can't play the apps.

Today, Microsoft accounts are bound to limited trial periods. You can't sign up for the same
free license twice with the same account. Also, Microsoft accounts can't purchase Power Apps
plans .
You might proceed with building and running apps by creating a Microsoft Entra identity in the
same Microsoft Entra tenant your Microsoft Account is associated with and sign up for a Power
Apps Developer plan

by using that identity. With your Microsoft Account, you need to share

your apps with your Microsoft Entra identity to proceed with editing and playing them.
To create a Microsoft Entra identity with administrative rights, follow the steps under “How do I
create a Microsoft Entra identity with the same administrative privileges as my Microsoft
Account?”.

Can I use my Microsoft Account with the Power Platform
PowerShell cmdlets?
No. In the meantime, follow the steps described in the previous questions. Add a new
Microsoft Entra identity to the Microsoft Entra tenant associated with your Microsoft Account
to use the Power Platform PowerShell cmdlets.

Can I share my apps with other users?
Yes, but you need to add users to the Microsoft Entra tenant associated with your Microsoft
Account, assign a license to these users, and then share your app with these users. As an
admin, you can assign free licenses to users but these licenses expire.
1. To create a Microsoft Entra identity with administrative rights, follow the steps under How
do I create a Microsoft Entra identity with the same administrative privileges as my
Microsoft Account?.
2. Add each user you want to share an app with to Microsoft Entra ID.
a. Sign in to https://portal.azure.com

.

b. Search for Microsoft Entra ID.
c. Add a new user or Add a guest user. You can add users that have either a Microsoft
Account or Microsoft Entra identity.
3. With your Microsoft Entra admin identity, either purchase Power Apps plans

. As an

admin, you receive 25 Power Apps per user trials. All of these trials expire.
4. With your Microsoft Entra admin identity, assign licenses to the users you added to your
Microsoft Entra tenant.
5. Sign in to Power Apps

to proceed with sharing your apps to users.

Can I run my apps in Power Apps mobile?
Yes. You must launch an app from an app link. Without launching an app directly, Power Apps
mobile doesn't support Microsoft Account sign in out of the context of launching an app.
You can get the app link for an app by going to Power Apps
Details > See the Web link property.

Next steps
Build an app
What is Microsoft Dataverse?

Last updated on 01/21/2026

> Apps > (select an app) >

Get started with Power Apps
ﾃ

Summarize this article for me

Get started with Power Apps to build your first app quickly and efficiently. The Power Apps
home page is your starting point for creating apps, managing existing ones, and accessing
powerful features that streamline your workflow.
What you'll accomplish: By the end of this article, you'll learn how to navigate the interface,
create your first app, and access Copilot AI features to accelerate development.
Select the appropriate tab in the following section to learn more.



Legend:
1. Left navigation pane
2. Search
3. Environment information and settings
4. Build apps
5. View and edit plans
6. View and edit apps
７ Note
Try the new Power Apps experience—an AI-native solution designed to simplify app
creation. Effortlessly automate workflows, connect data sources, and speed up

development, all without needing advanced coding skills. For more information, see
Overview of the New Power Apps experience (preview).

Quick start options
New to Power Apps? Start with our 5-minute canvas app tutorial
Have existing data? Create an app from SharePoint or Excel
Need help choosing? Review which app type is right for you

1 – Left navigation pane
Your main control center. When you sign in to the Power Apps home page

, the left

navigation pane gives you quick access to everything you need. Here's what each option does:



Legend:
1. Home: Takes you to the Power Apps home page.
2. Create: Create apps such as canvas apps, model-driven apps, chatbots, and AI models.
3. Learn: The learn hub lets you explore documents, training material, get help from the
Power Apps community, and other resources that help you to create and build Power
Apps.
4. Plans: View and edit your plans. For more information, see Overview of Plan designer.
5. Apps: If you created an app or someone else created one and shared it with you, you can
play or edit it. You can also filter the list of apps based on criteria such as whether you
opened it recently.
6. AI hub: Create and use AI models that optimize your business processes. For more
information, see Overview of AI Builder.
7. Your most used pages such as Tables, Connections, Flows: When you first sign in, the
top three pages that you use most are pinned to the left navigation pane. Use the More
option to unpin any of these pages and pin something else.
8. More: Pin your most used items to the left navigation such as tables, flows, and more.
9. Power Platform: Explore other Power Platform products or service.

Pin and unpin
Pin your most used pages in the navigation pane so you can quickly access features that you
use frequently. Links to other pages are available through the More link. When you pin an item,
it appears in the middle section above More.
When you sign in, the system automatically pins your most and recently used pages on the left
navigation pane. However, you can pin and unpin pages and customize it to your preference.
To pin or unpin a page from the left navigation pane, select More, and then select the
or

unpin button.

pin

You can also unpin an item by selecting the more button and then select Unpin.

Discover all
To see all your Power Apps, from the left navigation pane, select More > Discover all. To keep
it pinned, select the

pin button.

Move up or move down
When you have a few pages pinned in the navigation pane, you can start moving them up or
down.
To move a page up or down, select the more button next to the page that you want to move,
and then select Move up or Move down.

Power Platform
From the left navigation pane, select Power Platform to access Power Platform services such as
Power Platform Admin Center, Power BI, and Power Automate.

2 – Search
Find anything fast. The search bar helps you:
Locate your apps by typing any part of the name
Discover new app templates
Access help documentation
Quick tip: Start typing in the search bar, and then select the banner icon next to your app to
open or edit it.

3 – Environment information and settings
View your environment information and settings.

Choose an environment
For best results, start by ensuring that the home page is set to the right environment. For more
information, see Choose an environment.

Manage environments by using Power Platform admin center.

Notifications
Select the bell icon to see notifications. The notification center stores notifications until you
dismiss them or when they expire.

Settings
Select the gear icon to perform tasks such as connecting to data sources, identify your Power
Apps licenses, and open the page where you can perform administrative tasks.
Admin center: Opens another window and goes to the Power Platform admin center.
Plans(s): View your licenses. For more information, see Licensing overview.
Advanced settings: Manage your admin settings. For more information, see Manage
Microsoft Dataverse settings.
Session details: View your Power Apps session details such as session ID, tenant ID,
environment ID, and more.

Developer resources: Access developer resources.
Power Apps settings: View or update your language and time settings, notifications, or
access directories.
Themes: From the list of themes, select a theme for your organization.
Password: Change your password.
Contact preferences: Update your contact information.

Help
In the header, select the question mark icon to find more information about Power Apps.

You find links to documentation, Power Apps training on Microsoft Learn, the Power Apps
Community where you can share information with users in other organizations, and the Power
Apps blog where the newest features are announced.

4 – Build apps
Ready to build your first app? Choose the option that best fits your needs:
Start with a design →: Pick a layout or start with blank canvas app and design your app.
Start with data →: Create a new table in Dataverse, or connect to an existing datasource,
such as Dataverse, SharePoint, Excel, SQL, or upload a file.
Start with a plan →: Use plans to describe your business problem and generate apps,
tables, and more.
You can also create app using the Create menu on the left navigation pane. Review the
following articles, to learn more about creating apps:
Create a blank canvas app from scratch.
Create a canvas app using Microsoft Dataverse
create a canvas app based on Excel data.
Create a canvas app with data from a list
７ Note
If you're trying to create an app by using Dataverse but the option is unavailable,
review the permissions table in this article.

Permissions for Dataverse
Can't create a Dataverse app? This table shows what happens based on your permissions and
helps you understand your next steps.
ﾉ

Expand table

Maker has access to
a developer

Maker has permission
to create a developer

Maker has access to
another Dataverse

environment

environment

environment with required
permissions

Yes

n/a

n/a

Action

Switch to the developer
environment that appears
first in the alphabetical list

No

Yes

n/a

Create a developer
environment

No

No

Yes

Switch to another
environment using the
environment picker

No

No

No

Contact your admin

5 - View and edit plans
Select a plan to view and edit a plan. You can also, use the Plans menu in the left navigation
pane to access your plans.

6 – View and edit apps
Manage your apps effectively:
Access your apps: Use the Apps menu in the left navigation pane to find apps you own
or apps shared with you
Find apps quickly: Filter and sort apps to locate what you need
Take action: Hover over any app name to Edit, Play, or access Commands for sharing,
viewing details, and settings
Ready to customize? Learn advanced app editing techniques →

Last updated on 02/24/2026

Copilot and AI features in Power
Apps documentation
Learn about Copilot and generative AI features in Microsoft Power Apps.

Get started

ｂ GET STARTED
Copilot in Power Apps overview
Copilot admin settings
FAQ about using AI responsibly
Enable or disable Copilot features
Improve Copilot responses from Microsoft Dataverse

Create and use plans

ｅ OVERVIEW
Overview and prerequisites
FAQ for plans

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Create a plan
Create a plan from a solution

Create and edit apps with Copilot

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Build apps through conversation with Copilot
Create a canvas app description with Copilot (preview)

Create a model-driven app description with Copilot
Use field suggestions by Copilot
Create a generative page in a model-driven app (preview)
Use Copilot to create and edit Power Fx formulas
Rename controls in canvas apps with Copilot (preview)
Add a Copilot control to a canvas app (preview)
Add a custom Copilot to a canvas app (preview)

Implement agent supervision and automation

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Supervise agents using agent feed (preview)
Add agents to be supervised in app (preview)
Add an agent response control (preview)
Build an agent to automate your business process
Add agents to your model-driven app

Explore Copilot chat features

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Add Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps (preview)
Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps (preview)
Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot with an agent (preview)

Streamline data entry

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Get assistance filling forms
Use smart paste

Use Copilot in the email rich text editor

Explore and visualize data

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Explore data in a view
Visualize data in a view
See row summaries in a form and view
Use prompt columns

Summarize and provide contextual insight

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Use Copilot case summary
Use timeline highlights powered by generative AI
Create a custom row summary

Integrate custom AI experiences

ｐ CONCEPT
Use APIs to create custom AI powered experiences (preview)

Copilot in Power Apps overview
Copilot in Power Apps lets you quickly build apps using natural language. Describe your
business needs, and the service generates an app and data model for you—no coding
required. People interact with your app by asking questions or giving commands in everyday
language, making the experience more intuitive and engaging. This article gives an overview of
Copilot in Power Apps, including prerequisites, availability, and how to manage Copilot
features in your environment. Learn about Copilot and generative AI features in Microsoft
Power Apps.

Prerequisites
Each Copilot feature can have different requirements. Check the documentation for each
feature to learn what you need.
） Important
This capability is powered by Azure OpenAI Service.
Some Copilot features are in preview.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use

, and are

available before an official release so customers can get early access and provide
feedback.

Availability
This capability might not be available in your region yet. Learn more in Explore Copilot
features by geography and languages

.

This capability might be subject to usage limits or capacity throttling.
Understand the capabilities and limitations of AI-powered and Copilot features in Power
Apps. Learn more in FAQ about using AI responsibly in Power Apps.

Enable or disable Copilot features
Generally available Copilot features are on by default and can't be turned off except by
Microsoft Support. To turn them off, a tenant admin needs to contact Support.

Turn off Copilot preview features in Power Apps

Copilot preview features are on by default, but your admin can turn them off for an
environment or a tenant.

Turn off Copilot preview features for an environment
1. Sign in to the Power Platform admin center

.

2. In the navigation pane, select Environments, and then select an environment.
3. On the command bar, select Settings > Features.
4. Set the Copilot toggle to Off.

Turn off Copilot preview features for your tenant
1. Sign in to the Power Platform admin center

.

2. In the navigation pane, select Settings to open the Tenant settings page.
3. Select Copilot in Power Apps (preview), and then set the toggle to Off.
4. Select Save.
７ Note
Turning off Copilot for your tenant turns off Copilot for makers only. It doesn't turn off the
Copilot control for canvas apps or Copilot for model-driven apps.

Related information
Copilot features in Power Apps
FAQ about using AI responsibly in Power Apps
Language availability for Power Platform
Geographical availability for Power Platform
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more

Last updated on 01/21/2026

Use the Learn hub
Article • 09/27/2023

The Learn hub gives you easy access to resources that help you as you're learning to
build Power Apps, include training material, product documentation, announcements
and event notices, and help from the Power Apps community.
1. To access the Learn hub, go to the Power Apps home page

and select Learn in

the left navigation pane.
2. Use Experience level to select the content level that best suits your needs.
3. Select a tab to access the information that you're looking for.

The Learn hub includes the following sections:
The banner at the top showcases the latest announcements, trending posts, and
information about upcoming Microsoft events.

The Experience Level menu provides learning content based on the experience
level that you select. For instance, if you are a developer seeking information about
extensibility points in Power Apps, choose Advanced to find relevant help
resources.

The Overview tab lists featured training paths and modules, posts from the
community, help articles, and training videos on YouTube.

The Courses tab provides guided training such as training paths, modules, and
training events.
The Articles tab lists relevant posts in public blogs.
The Community tab provides access to content from the Power Apps community,
including user groups, networking events, the LinkedIn Power Apps community,
and more.
The Support tab is where you can find help articles, report a problem, and submit
an idea.

From your org (preview)
In Managed Environments, admins can provide customized welcome content to help
makers get started with Power Apps. Learn about customizing maker welcome content
(preview). If your organization has created custom welcome content, you see it when
you sign in to Power Apps as a maker.
You can select Don't show this again here if you prefer not to see the custom content
when you sign in.
To get back to it later, open the Learn hub and select From your org.

What's new in Power Apps?
Article • 08/14/2024

This topic provides resources for you to learn about the new features that have been
recently released, features that will be releasing over the next few months, and known
limitations and resolutions.

Weekly releases
For information about the new features, fixes, and improvements released in the past
few weeks, see Released versions for Microsoft Power Apps.
To learn more about how to browse information in the weekly release notes, read this
blog post

.

７ Note
Releases are rolled out over several days. New or updated functionality might not
appear immediately.

Release plan
For information about new features being released over the next few months that you
can use for planning, see Release Planner .

Monthly releases for model-driven apps
Power Platform admins can define the release cadence for features in model-driven
apps.
ﾉ

Expand table

Channel

Frequency

Notes

Semi-

Twice per

Rollout follows weekly releases starting in early April and early

annual

year

October. Default release cadence within Power Apps and Dynamics
365.

Monthly

Once per
month

Rollout follows the weekly release schedule starting with the first
weekly release for the month.

For more information about release channel options and monthly channel, go to Release
channel overview.

Known limitations
For information about known limitations, see Common issues and resolutions.

See also
Power Platform release plans

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Get your developer environment
(preview)
Article • 04/18/2023

[This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
By default, Microsoft Power Platform app makers can create up to three developer type
environments. Developer environments are special environments intended only for use
by the owner. Use these environments to build, test, and perform application lifecycle
management (ALM) with Power Apps, Power Automate, and Microsoft Dataverse.
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Developer type environments allow you to:
Create apps and flows without writing code, with full-featured Power Apps and
Power Automate development tools. Easily share and collaborate on these
solutions with others.
Use a fully managed, scalable data platform with Dataverse, including support for
common business application actions. Use out-of-the-box common tables or build
your own data schema.
Export the solutions you create in your developer environment and then import
them into other Power Platform environments so users can test and use them.

Prerequisites
To create a developer environment, you need an active Power Platform plan that
includes Dataverse. More information: Licensing overview for Microsoft Power Platform

Create your own developer type environment
1. Sign in to Power Apps .

2. Select the environment picker > Try it now.

3. Follow the instructions on your screen to create your environment.

Create your own environment when you sign
up for the Power Apps Developer Plan
The Power Apps Developer Plan gives you up to three free development type
environments to build and test with Power Apps, Power Automate, and Microsoft
Dataverse. The developer environments maintained under this plan will be available as
long as you actively use the Power Apps Developer Plan.
More information: Create a developer environment with the Power Apps Developer Plan

See also
Environments overview

Power Apps preview program
Article • 05/15/2024

Microsoft Power Apps updates the platform and its capabilities every few days or weeks.
The Power Apps preview program is a way to get early access to features and updates
before they become available in other regions (where customer production apps are
deployed).
With the Power Apps preview program, you can:
Try out, learn, and dogfood upcoming features: Many features are rolled out first
in the preview for a few days to get feedback. By participating in the preview
program, you can learn about new features sooner and provide feedback. Also,
you can quickly take advantage of new features as soon as they reach regions
where their production apps are created.
Enable business continuity by ensuring current apps continue to work with the
upcoming updates (vNext) of Power Apps.

What in Power Apps is available for preview?
To access the preview features, you need to be in a preview environment or using a
preview URL. We have preview features for the following areas across Power Apps.

Canvas apps
For preview, experimental, and retired features in canvas apps, use Power Apps Studio to
turn the features On or Off while editing your app.
For early access to upcoming changes in canvas apps, use the following environments:
Preview environments - Upcoming changes are typically rolled out to preview
environments 1-2 weeks before they're available to all other regions.
Sandbox environments - To access preview version of Power Apps on sandbox
environments, use make.preview.powerapps.com.

Model-driven apps and app management
You can create, manage, and share apps using Power Apps

(make.powerapps.com). To

use the preview features, we recommend that you are in a preview or sandbox
environment and not in a production environment. Then, go to the preview version of
Power Apps

(make.preview.powerapps.com).

How to get early access to the upcoming
updates?
７ Note
Preview (United States) has been replaced with the Early release cycle option.
Following the instructions below, you can create preview, or early release cycle
environments in the United States region and other regions that may be closer to
your location.
For Power Platform, all the apps, flows, and related resources are stored in an
environment. Early access to all preview features is available when an admin creates an
environment that supports the Get new features early option. A subset of the regions
currently have this capability and the environment must be created in one of those
regions. For more information, see Early release cycle environments.
All the apps and other resources created in this environment are on the vNext version of
the platform.

How to learn about the latest updates?
You can get aware of the new features, which are available for preview at What’s new in
Power Apps. The features that are only available in the preview have a ‘Preview’ tag.

Key scenarios to test with the preview program
1. Validate your production apps with the upcoming Power Apps updates (vNext)
You might like to verify your production apps, to be working fine with the next
upcoming updates on Power Apps. You can copy the apps from a production
environment to an environment in First Release and play the apps to test out the
scenarios. Note, all the other necessary resources like CustomAPI, Power Automate,
etc., need to be moved along with it. This should just create another copy of these
apps and required resources. You can start testing out the newer updates not just
for playing an app, but also while editing and managing the apps.
2. Trying out the new features available in preview
We launch many new features initially in the Preview (United States) region. You
can try out the new features before they become available in the rest of the

regions (which might impact your production environment).

How to provide feedback to the product team?
You can provide feedback on the Power Apps forum

and/or contact support

.

What are the known issues and limitations?
1. Clients not available in preview
There are certain features, and services available in preview:
ﾉ

Expand table

Create an app

Playing an app

Others

Available in
preview?

Web studio

Web player

Flow, Connectors
and Gateways

Yes

Desktop version
of studio

Power Apps mobile for iOS,
Android, and Windows

No

2. Using apps created in preview environments in production environments
Power Apps doesn't support opening apps saved in preview only versions of Power
Apps in production environments. Most versions of Power Apps eventually move
from preview into production, but how and when this happens is influenced by
many factors so it shouldn't be relied on. We recommend you use production
environments to create or edit any app intended for use in a production
environment.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

System requirements, limits, and
configuration values for Power Apps
This article contains information on supported device platforms, web browser requirements,
limits, and configuration values for Power Apps.

Supported platforms for running apps by using the
Power Apps mobile app
７ Note
To ensure an optimal user experience, test your app on the specific devices you plan
to use for production deployment.
Performance testing and results can vary between device types such as mobile,
desktop, and laptops. Factors include processing power, memory capacity, network
connectivity, app complexity, and other apps running in parallel on a device. Make
sure the test results meet your business requirements before you roll out the
solutions in production.

ﾉ

Expand table

Platform

Version

iOS

The latest version of iOS is always the recommended version to run Power Apps mobile. The
previous version is the minimum required.

Android

The latest version of Android is always the recommended version to run Power Apps mobile.
The previous three versions are the minimum required to run Power Apps mobile.

Windows

Windows 10 version 17763.0 or later to run Power Apps for Windows.

７ Note
New major versions of iOS and Android release each year. When a new version releases, if
you're using the oldest previously supported version, you have 60 days to update your
device to at least the new minimum supported version to continue to run Power Apps
mobile.

Supported browsers for running Power Apps
ﾉ

Expand table

Browser

Supported versions

App type

Google
Chrome

Latest three major
releases

Model-driven apps, canvas apps, app and component
designers1.

Microsoft Edge

Latest three major
releases

Model-driven apps, canvas apps, app and component
designers1.

Mozilla Firefox

Latest three major
releases

Model-driven apps and canvas apps.

Apple Safari

13 and later

Model-driven apps and canvas apps.

1App and component designers include Power Apps studio, model-driven app designer, and

model-driven custom page designer.

Supported operating systems for browsers running
Power Apps
ﾉ

Expand table

Operating

Supported

system

versions

Windows

Windows 10 or

Model-driven apps, canvas apps, app and component

later

designers1.

10.13 or later

Model-driven apps, canvas apps, app and component

macOS

App type

designers1.
iOS

iOS 13 or later

Model-driven apps2 and canvas apps.

Android

10 or later

Model-driven apps2 and canvas apps.

1

App and component designers include Power Apps studio, model-driven app designer, and

model-driven custom page designer.
2

Using the web browser on a phone to run a model-driven app isn't supported; use the Power

Apps mobile app.
For classic web application system requirements, see Web application requirements.

７ Note
Canvas apps running on Windows platform must use the legacy Microsoft Dataverse
connector. A warning is displayed for apps that still use the legacy connector, but using it
for Windows platform is supported.

Request limits
These limits apply to each single outgoing request:
ﾉ

Name

Limit

Timeout

180 seconds

Retry attempts

4

Expand table

７ Note
The retry value might vary. For certain error conditions, retrying isn't necessary.

IP addresses
Requests from Power Apps use IP addresses that depend on the region of the environment
that the app is in. Microsoft doesn't publish fully qualified domain names for Power Apps
scenarios.
Calls made from an API connected through an app (for example, the SQL API or the SharePoint
API) come from these IP addresses.

Required services
This list identifies all services to which Power Apps communicates and their usages. Your
network must not block these services.
ﾉ

Expand table

Domains

Protocols

Uses

api.bap.microsoft.com
*.api.bap.microsoft.com

https

Environment permissions management

management.azure.com

https

Power Apps Management Service

msmanaged-na.azure-apim.net

https

Runtime of Connectors/Apis

login.microsoft.com
login.windows.net
login.microsoftonline.com

https

Microsoft Authentication Library

https

Azure Graph - For getting user info (for

secure.aadcdn.microsoftonline-p.com
*.odc.officeapps.live.com
graph.microsoft.com
graph.windows.net

example, profile photo)

*.azure-apim.net

https

API Hubs - Different subdomains for each
locale

*.azure-apihub.net

https

API Hubs - Different subdomains for each
locale

*.powerapps.com

https

create.powerapps.com,
content.powerapps.com,
apps.powerapps.com,
make.powerapps.com,
*gateway.prod.island.powerapps.com,
*gateway.prod.cm.powerapps.com,
*harvest.preview.powerapps.com, and
*harvest.powerapps.com

*.gateway.prod.island.powerapps.com

WSS

*.harvest.preview.powerapps.com
*.harvest.powerapps.com
*.azureedge.net

Required for communication with and
startup of canvas apps and real-time
updates with Coding Agent.

https

create.powerapps.com,
content.powerapps.com, and
make.powerapps.com
(Optional) We highly recommend that
you use the wildcard listed under
Domains. You can download the
complete list if you want to allow specific
domain names instead of using
*.azureedge.net. However, this list is
subject to change.

*.azurefd.net

https

create.powerapps.com,
content.powerapps.com, and
make.powerapps.com

Domains

Protocols

Uses

*.ces.microsoftcloud.com
config.centro.core.microsoft

https

Access to net promoter score (NPS) and
surveys.

https

Blob storage
(Optional) We highly recommend that
you use the wildcard listed under

admin.microsoft.com
petrol.office.microsoft.com
oness.microsoft.com
*.blob.core.windows.net

Domains. You can download the
complete list if you want to allow specific
domain names instead of using
*.blob.core.windows.net. However, this list
is subject to change.
*.flow.microsoft.com

https

*.powerautomate.com

http://*.crm#.dynamics.com and
https://*.crm#.dynamics.com

create.powerapps.com,
content.powerapps.com, and
make.powerapps.com

https

Required for environments access.
Includes integration and static Content
Delivery Network (CDN) content
endpoints.
Replace # in http://*.crm#.dynamics.com
and https://*.crm#.dynamics.com with
your region's number:
Asia/Pacific: 5
Canada: 3
Europe, Africa, and Middle East: 15
and 4
France: 12
Germany: 16
India: 8
Japan: 7
North America: no number
Oceania: 6
Singapore: 20
South Africa: 14
South America: 2
Switzerland: 17
UAE: 15
United Kingdom: 11
Dynamics 365 US Government: 9

browser.pipe.aria.microsoft.com

https

Rest of the World telemetry endpoint for

Domains

Protocols

Uses
model-driven apps

*.events.data.microsoft.com

https

Telemetry endpoint for Power Apps

localhost

http

Power Apps Mobile

127.0.0.1

http

Power Apps Mobile

You might need to
explicitly list the
port (5040 and up)
for
localhost/127.0.0.1.
ecs.office.com

https

Retrieve feature flags for Power Apps

augloop.svc.cloud.microsoft
*.augloop.svc.cloud.microsoft

WSS

Power Apps Studio Copilot

config.edge.skype.com

https

Retrieve feature flags for Power Apps
(backup)

api.powerplatform.com
*.powerplatform.com
*.api.powerplatformusercontent.com

https

Required for Power Platform API
connectivity used internally by Microsoft
products, and Power Platform

*.powerplatformusercontent.com

programmability and extensibility.

*.sharepointonline.com

https

Retrieve assets for presenting the header
that appears at the top of app playing
experiences

ris.api.iris.microsoft.com
eudb.ris.api.iris.microsoft.com

https

Record user action in response to Power
Apps in-app campaigns

arc.msn.com
arc-emea.msn.com

https

Record user viewing of Power Apps inapp campaigns

*.hubblecontent.osi.office.net
hubble.officeapps.live.com
res.cdn.office.net

https

Provides stock images to use in your app

dc.services.visualstudio.com

https

Application Insights endpoint used for
custom telemetry in canvas app

*.ocv.microsoft.com

https

Allows users to provide Copilot feedback
data in Power Apps

js.monitor.azure.com

https

This is used by the office header for
reporting telemetry

1

Replaces domain name gov.content.powerapps.us used before July 2022.

2

Replaces domain name high.content.powerapps.us used before July 2022.

3

Replaces domain name content.appsplatform.us used before July 2022.
） Important
If you're using a VPN, it must be configured to exclude localhost from tunneling for
Power Apps Mobile.
If you're a US Government customer or a customer in China, unblock additional
service URLs. For more information:
US Government: Power Apps US Government service URLs, Power Automate US
Government service URLs
China: Power Platform and Dynamics 365 apps - operated by 21Vianet in China.

Deprecated endpoints
This section lists endpoints that Microsoft no longer supports. Instead, use the new endpoints
listed in the table. Update any bookmarks that use the deprecated endpoint to the new
endpoint.
ﾉ

Expand table

Deprecated endpoint

New endpoint

web.powerapps.com/apps/{yourAppGuid}

apps.powerapps.com/play/{yourAppGuid}

web.powerapps.com/apps/{yourAppGuid}/open

apps.powerapps.com/play/{yourAppGuid}

Embedding limits for Power Apps
Canvas app embedding
Power Apps doesn't support the nested embedding of canvas apps in native desktop, mobile,
or other non-browser clients.
The following table shows some of the examples where embedding a canvas app is and isn't
supported:
ﾉ

Expand table

Power Apps embedding scenario

Supported clients

Unsupported clients

A canvas app embedded in a SharePoint
page.

Web, for example,
Sharepoint.com

Teams desktop
Teams mobile

A canvas app embedded in a SharePoint
page that is added as a tab in a Microsoft

Web, for example.
Sharepoint.com

Teams desktop
Teams mobile

Teams channel.

Teams.microsoft.com

A canvas app used as a custom form in the
SharePoint page.

Web, for example,
Sharepoint.com

Teams desktop
Teams mobile

A canvas app used as a custom form in the
SharePoint page that is added to a Teams
team.

Web, for example.
Sharepoint.com
Teams.microsoft.com

Teams desktop
Teams mobile
SharePoint
mobile

A Power BI report that is added to Teams, or
a SharePoint site.

Web, for example,
Teams.microsoft.com

Teams desktop
Teams mobile
SharePoint
mobile

A canvas app is embedded in a third party

Third party websites in a

Third party native

client.

browser

applications

A canvas app in Unified Service Desk

None

Unified Service Desk
Desktop app

A canvas app embedded in Power BI

Web, for example,
app.powerbi.com

Power BI Desktop
Client

Model-driven app embedding
Power Apps doesn't support embedding a model-driven app or page within an IFrame in
another application.

Proxies
Power Apps doesn't support running with a proxy enabled. This limitation can cause
unpredictable behavior. If you encounter problems, disable the proxy and then try again.
Some proxies, such as Zscaler and Blue Coat, remove headers from Power Apps requests.
Power Apps relies on these headers, like CORS or authentication headers, to load the app.

Some proxies, such as Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps and McAfee, might intercept
and change the URL of an app or embedded app. For example, if there's a Dynamics 365
app that runs under domain org.crm.dynamics.com or a canvas app that runs under
domain apps.powerapps.com, the platform doesn't support a proxy that changes these
domains to a custom domain such as mycustomdomain.com. This limitation can cause
unpredictable behavior when the platform tries to retrieve tokens that are necessary to
run the app.

Local network access and permission problems
In 2025, many browsers introduced additional security controls to prevent cross-origin attacks
and unauthorized access to private network resources

. These changes went into effect for

Edge with their December 4, 2025 release.
Some proxies are configured by default to host resources in a way that appears to the enduser's browser as a local network resource. This configuration now results in those requests
being blocked. This behavior might appear to end-users as unexpected permission prompts,
silent failures, or generic messages such as "This app stopped working. Try refreshing your
browser".
７ Note
Microsoft Support can't resolve these networking problems. Enterprise admins might be
able to mitigate this problem by updating browser policies such as
LocalNetworkAccessAllowedForUrls for Microsoft Edge and Google Chrome

or by

updating proxy configurations according to their vendor's guidelines.

Data types size limits
For canvas app data type limits, you can find information about size limits on text, hyperlinks,
images, and media in Data types in Power Apps.
For Microsoft Dataverse data type size limits, you can find information on column types, such
as text and image columns, in Types of columns.

Power Apps per app plan
For more information, see Power Apps per app plan in the Power Platform admin guide.

See also
System requirements, limits, and configuration values for Power Pages

Last updated on 01/14/2026

How do I find and run apps?
Article • 10/23/2024

No need to manually work on a task to get your work done. With Power Apps, you can
create and use a canvas app or model-driven app to get your work done quickly. Once
you create an app, you can share the app with your organization.
Canvas apps give you much control over the user experience of the app. An app maker
can use templates to create a canvas app, or they can configure the app any way they
like. A canvas app, like its name, is a blank canvas, so you can create an app to fit the
needs of users in your organization.
Because canvas apps can essentially be anything, there isn’t much help documentation
on how to use an app once it’s created. If you need help with using a canvas app,
contact your app maker or Power Apps admin.
Model-driven apps use the Unified Interface that provides a responsive and accessible
design. You can run the app on a web browser or on popular mobile devices. The app
has multiple components including dashboards, forms, views, charts, and business
processes that together help make the app easy to use.
This section provides information about how to find and run canvas and model-driven
apps from various places. It also provides information on how to navigate and work
within a model-driven app: Use model-driven apps.

What's required to run apps?
Ensure that you're using a supported web browser and operating system. For more
information, see System requirements, limits, and configuration values for Power Apps
Additionally, you need a Power Apps license to run an app. If you don't have a license,
you can request one by following instructions here: Request a Power Apps license

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Run an app in a web browser
Article • 06/05/2024

When you create an app, or someone shares an app with you, you can run that app on
the Power Apps mobile app or in a web browser. In this topic, you'll learn how to run a
canvas or model-driven app in a web browser from the Microsoft 365 apps page .
For full functionality and optimized experience on a tablet device, we strongly
recommend that you use the Power Apps mobile app. If you don't have the Power Apps
mobile app installed, you can still use the web browser on your tablet, as long as your
device has sufficiently high screen resolution. For more information: Required privileges
and supported devices.
７ Note
Using the web browser on your phone to run your model-driven apps isn't
supported; you must use the Power Apps mobile app.
To follow this quickstart, you need:
A Power Apps license. This is available with a Power Apps plan, such as the Power
Apps per user plan, or Power Apps trial, or any of the Microsoft Office 365
Dynamics 365

or

plans that include Power Apps.

Access to an app that you built or that someone else built and shared with you.
Access to a supported web browser and operating system. For more information:
System requirements, limits, and configuration values for Power Apps

Sign in to Microsoft 365 apps page
Sign in to the Microsoft 365 apps page .

Find an app on the Home page
The Home page may show several types of business apps.

The list of Office apps is a limited, curated list based on the following criteria:
Apps that you launched in the last week.
Apps that you created.
Apps your admin marked as Featured in your tenant.
First-party, model-driven apps such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365
Customer Service, and Dynamics 365 Field Service that you can access and are
hosted in production or default environments.
７ Note
Marking an app as Featured is the only way to guarantee inclusion in the list.

Known limitations
When a new app is shared with users, the app needs to meet the criteria listed
above. It can take up to 24 hours for the app to appear in the list of Office apps.
Some model-driven apps aren't recording the last launched time. Until this issue is
resolved, we recommend using featured apps. Featured apps only appear to users
who have access to the apps. Featured apps don't appear to all users.
It's possible that users will be able to see model-driven apps that they used to be
able to access, but can no longer. There's also a chance that users won't be able to
see model-driven apps that they have access to.
It can take up to a week for users to start seeing the new URL after an org URL
update.

In the case of model-driven apps, changes made only to the icon may not be
reflected. Until this issue is resolved, changing another property, like description,
causes the icon to be updated.

What if I can't find an app?
Apps that haven't been used in the last week won't appear in the list of Office apps. If
you can't find an app, then you need to use the web link to open the app directly in
your browser.
1. To find the web link for an app, sign in to Power Platform admin center
Apps

or Power

.

2. Find the app that you're looking for.
3. Across the app name, select (...) More Commands > Details.
4. From the Details tab copy the Web link.
5. Paste the web link in a browser window to launch the app.
The Microsoft 365 apps page has a different URL per cloud.
ﾉ

#

Cloud

Microsoft 365 app discovery URL

1

Commercial

https://www.office.com/apps

2

Government

https://www.office.com/apps

Expand table

Community
Cloud (GCC)
3

Government
Community
Cloud (GCC

https://www.office365.us/apps

High)
4

Department
of Defense

https://www.ohome.apps.mil/apps

5

Office 365

There isn’t a corresponding https://www.office.com/apps

operated by
21Vianet

this cloud. However, the Microsoft 365 app launcher experience throughout
Microsoft 365 experiences includes Power Apps and Dynamics apps such as
new word document in

experience for

https://portal.partner.microsoftonline.cn/NewSpoDocument?docType=Word

Run an app from a URL

You can save an app's URL as a bookmark in your browser and run it by selecting the
bookmark, or you can send a URL as a link through email. If someone else created an
app and shared it with you in an email, you can run the app by selecting the link in the
email. When running an app using a URL, you may be prompted to sign in using your
Azure Active Directory credentials.

Connect to data
If an app requires a connection to a data source or permission to use the device's
capabilities (such as the camera or location services), you must give consent before you
can use the app. Typically, you're prompted only the first time.

Sign out
To sign out of the Microsoft 365 apps page, select your profile image and then select
Sign out.

Next steps
In this topic, you learned how to run a canvas or model-driven app in a web browser. To
learn how to:
run a model-driven apps or canvas apps on a mobile device, see Run model-driven
apps and canvas apps on Power Apps mobile
use a model-driven app, see Use model-driven apps
mark an app as featured, see Set-AdminPowerAppsFeatured

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Discover apps via Marketplace
The apps you build and publish with Power Apps are discovered and used in Dynamics 365 on
the web. It displays all of your apps--the apps that you've chosen to use (that is, by launching
from a share email or opening from Marketplace) or that an admin has provisioned for you.
This includes all of your apps from Power Apps, and Dynamics 365 applications from Microsoft.
You can search for apps, filter by environment, and pin the apps you use most frequently to the
top of the page.

Find apps via the Marketplace organization gallery
Microsoft Marketplace is now embedded in the Microsoft 365 apps
(https://www.office.com/apps

) home page and throughout the common navigation. It now

includes a private gallery of apps available to you within your company. Select Get more apps
from the home page or task pane, and navigate to the My Organization tab to see apps that
are available to you.

Apps built with Power Apps and shared with a security group or the entire company with User
permission appear here, instead of cluttering your home page by default. When you get an app
from Marketplace, it will then appear on the home page and be easily accessible throughout
the experience.

Last updated on 01/16/2026

Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in canvas
apps (preview)
Microsoft 365 Copilot for apps is a next-generation AI assistant that helps you gain insights into
the data in your apps through conversations in natural language. Microsoft 365 Copilot boosts
your productivity through AI-powered insights and navigation assistance.
） Important
This feature is in preview.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use

. They're

available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
feedback.
This feature is in the process of rolling out and might not be available in your region
yet.

Prerequisites
A maker must enable Microsoft 365 Copilot in your application before it becomes visible in your
app. For more information, see Add Microsoft 365 Copilot for app users.
７ Note
To use the Microsoft 365 Copilot feature in your app, you must have a Microsoft 365
Copilot license.

Copilot pane
After Microsoft 365 Copilot is enabled, access it through the Copilot button near the upper-right
corner of the page.

Use Microsoft 365 Copilot to ask questions
Microsoft 365 Copilot in apps answers questions about the Dataverse tables or SharePoint list
data in the app.



Share your feedback
Help us improve Copilot responses by using the feedback controls on each response. Provide
feedback for every response:

If a response is high quality and helpful, select the thumbs up button.
If a response is incorrect, incomplete, or not helpful, select the thumbs down button.
When you provide feedback, share as much information as possible. For example, include what
you expected to see, what was missing or incorrect, and any relevant context. The more detail
you share, the better we can understand your feedback and continuously improve responses.



Microsoft 365 Copilot suggested questions
To help you get started, Microsoft 365 Copilot suggests questions to ask. Many suggested
questions have placeholders you replace with appropriate text.



Use agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot
） Important
When you explicitly select an agent in Microsoft 365 Copilot in apps, the agent no longer
answers questions about the Dataverse table or SharePoint list data in the app unless you
explicitly configure your agent to do so. However, the agent uses information from the chat
history. To get the side chat to answer questions about the Dataverse table or SharePoint list
data in the app again, you need to remove the explicit agent selection.
Microsoft 365 Copilot in apps lets you use any agent available in Microsoft 365 Copilot right from
the side pane. Once an agent is available within Microsoft 365 Copilot, you can interact with your
agent by either choosing it from the navigation panel or @ mentioning it.



One of the benefits of @ mentioning an agent is that you can add or remove it from an ongoing
conversation, which lets you have several agents collaborating in one conversation. When you
select an agent from the navigation panel, you have a direct conversation only with the agent you
selected.

Limitations
M365 Copilot in canvas apps supports apps that use either SharePoint or Dataverse as a
data source but not both within the same app.
During the initial preview phase, for SharePoint, only applications containing a single
SharePoint list will return answers to questions.
If your canvas app connects to a SharePoint list through an environment variable, Microsoft
365 Copilot responses will not reference data from that SharePoint list.
Microsoft 365 Copilot for canvas apps allows users to view data by using read-only
operations. This capability means that users can only view data that matches their queries
and can't make any changes. To make changes, customization with an agent is required.
Microsoft 365 Copilot for canvas apps isn't available in the Power Apps mobile app.

Related information
Add Microsoft 365 Copilot for app users in canvas apps (preview)

Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot with an agent in canvas apps (preview)

Last updated on 06/16/2026

Run a canvas app from a SharePoint
page
Article • 09/05/2024

You can add a Power Apps canvas app to a SharePoint Online page using the Power
Apps web part. Then users can run the app from the SharePoint Online page. Learn
more in Office: Use the Power Apps web part

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

.

Add an app to Microsoft Teams
Article • 02/15/2022

Microsoft Teams is a chat-based collaboration platform built on Office 365 technologies.
You can customize the Teams experience by adding Power Apps canvas apps to your
channels in Teams.
For detailed information about how to add the Product Showcase sample app to a
Teams channel and then open the app from the channel, see Embed a canvas app as a
tab app in Power Apps and Teams integration section.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use model-driven apps in Power Apps
06/30/2025

A model-driven app has multiple components including dashboards, forms, views, charts, and
business processes that make the app easy to use. Model-driven apps can also include AI
features that let users to supervise and interact with agents around business processes more
efficiently and productively.
This section explains how to navigate in a model-driven app, work with rows, import and
export data, and automate processes by using Power Automate.
） Important
Because canvas apps provide a lot of control over the user experience and can essentially
be anything, there isn’t much help documentation on how to use a canvas app. If you
need help using a canvas app, contact your app maker or Power Apps admin.

Related articles
Enhanced user experience with the Unified Interface
Basic navigation in a model-driven app

See also
Find and run apps
What is a model-driven app?
What is a canvas app?

Modern, refreshed look for modeldriven apps
Model-driven apps are modernized in waves. Each wave updates styling, layout, and behavior to
align with the latest Microsoft Fluent design system

— making apps easier to use so people

can accomplish their goals more quickly. The Fluent design system provides consistency, quality,
and Microsoft-wide platform coherence. It also provides a solid foundation for extensibility and
future capabilities like dark mode.
） Important
With the 2026 Wave 1 release, all users must use the New Look (Wave 1 of the
modernization arc). Makers can't switch a model-driven app back to the classic look. This
requirement doesn't include the Header and navigation refresh (preview) (Wave 2).

Modernization waves at a glance
ﾉ

Expand table

Wave

What it includes

Availability

Wave 1 — The New

Updated styling in forms, views, dashboards, dialogs,

Generally available.

Look

and controls; the floating command bar; the Power
Apps grid; new field control styling

Mandatory as of 2026
Wave 1.

Wave 2 — Header

Modern app header, streamlined sitemap, condensed

Public preview

and navigation
refresh

page headers, and updated command bar behavior

Future waves continue to build on this foundation.

Wave 1: The New Look
Here's what you can expect in the New Look experience:
Updated styling in form, view, and dashboard pages, which includes the use of drop
shadows and brighter background colors to create an elevated or floating appearance. The

floating appearance helps to visually separate sections and focuses attention on primary
content.
New Fluent-based controls in forms, business process flows, and dialogs. Dialogs now resize
height automatically based on the content.
A new Power Apps grid in place of the read-only grid in view and standard, dashboard
pages.
A new mechanism for customizing the app header colors to match your personal or
organizational branding. To learn more, see Use modern themes.

Command bar
The floating command bar aligns with the Microsoft 365 experience, with consistent spacing,
rounded corners, and elevation. In the following example, the command bar is in a separate
section at the top of the page.

View pages
View pages use the new command bar and updated grid areas that take advantage of the
elevation changes to help draw the user's attention.
The most significant change on view pages is the switch from the read-only grid to the Power
Apps grid control, which features infinite scrolling for a modern, data browsing experience. This
grid also appears in subgrids and associated grids in main forms and dashboards. The Power
Apps grid control also supports inline editing by using the Enable filtering property. Makers can
manually configure their editable grids to use the Power Apps grid control.
The following example shows a view page with the modern, refreshed look.

Form pages
Form pages use the new command bar with refreshed headers, tabs, sections, and business
process flows. Quick views, card forms, headers, sitemaps, and timeline controls also feature
updated styling.
The following example shows a form page with the modern, refreshed look.

Field controls
Field controls such as text input, action input, lookup, and check box controls are built and
designed by using Fluent components. Future updates will modernize more field controls by
using Fluent design.
Field sections, which are containers for the fields on a form, have a more streamlined design.
Icons are now on the right side of field labels. Some redundant icons were removed for a cleaner
layout. Input and error message styling is also refreshed based on Fluent design.
The following example shows a set of fields with the modern, refreshed look.

Dashboard page
The system dashboard page, with independent subgrids and charts, uses the new command bar
and has styling similar to the sections in form and view pages. When you turn on the modern
experience, or when you use the monthly channel, the system dashboard grids use the new
Power Apps grid control. The new grid isn't turned on by default.

Chart controls

The chart controls on view pages and dashboards are updated to a new color palette for the
modern, refreshed look.
If you customize the chart colors, the new look overrides your custom colors. To keep your
custom colors, add the CustomColorOverride property in the chart .xml file.
XML
<Chart CustomColorOverride="true">

Wave 2: Header and navigation refresh (preview)
[This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted functionality.
These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early
access and provide feedback.
The header and navigation refresh feature makes apps easier to use and enhances productivity
by reducing time spent navigating pages, finding commands, and learning layouts. This preview
includes:
Modern app header and streamlined sitemap. Updated styling aligned to the Fluent design
system with a simplified sitemap that reduces navigation complexity.
Condensed page headers with compact commands. Page headers take up less vertical
space, giving more room for content.
New command ordering. Injected system commands like Show As and Show Chart now
appear in the third position on the command bar, after New and Delete, giving the most
common user actions priority placement.
Here's how the new app header and the streamlined sitemap look:



Here's how the new form header looks with more focus on row details:



This update automatically applies to all apps generated by the Plan designer. For other existing
apps, you can opt in by following these steps:
1. In the app designer, select Settings on the command bar.
2. Select Features, and then enable Header and navigation refresh.



Learn more in FAQ for header and navigation refresh (preview).

Known limitations
The modern, refreshed look for model-driven apps has some limitations:

Modern, refreshed look outside of browser
The mail app supports the modern, refreshed look. It's on by default for environments on the
monthly channel as part of the February 2026 release, and will be enabled on the semi-annual
channel with the October 2026 update.
The mobile app also supports the modern, refreshed look. Admins can enable it by adding the
Mobile modern experience setting to a solution and updating the value for the environment or
for individual apps (2 = on). To learn more about app settings, see Manage model-driven app
settings in the app designer.

Switching themes or enabling dark mode
Switching themes or enabling dark mode isn't supported at this time.

Honoring classic theming
With the modern, refreshed look, Power Apps no longer honors classic theme customizations.
You can, however, override the colors for the app header to match your organization branding
with the modern, refreshed look. Learn more in Change the color of the app header. Other theme
customization options for the modern, refreshed look aren't available yet.

Custom icons
Only SVG icons are supported. If you use other formats such as PNG, the navigation doesn't
display them and a default icon appears instead.

Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
1. Can I use the modern, refreshed look in the Power Apps
component framework or in custom code components?
The modern theme in use is passed to Power Apps component framework components, so you
can style your components with modern theming.

2. Can I use the modern, refreshed look in custom pages?
You can use modern controls with custom pages and the modern, refreshed look. Currently,
custom pages don't use the modern theme.

3. Can I change the color of the app header?
You can change the color of the app header to match your organization while using the modern,
refreshed look. To learn more, see Use modern themes. Other theme customization options for
the modern, refreshed look aren't available yet.

4. FAQ for header and navigation refresh (preview)
Can I turn on Header and navigation refresh without turning on the
New look?
No, you need to turn on New look in addition to turning on Header and navigation refresh to see
the refreshed header and navigation experience in the app.

How do I enable the Header and navigation refresh for existing apps?
The feature is available as an opt-in capability for existing apps. You can enable it through the
app setting.

Why don't I see the Help icon in the global command bar in the
app header?
Help link to documentation is available in the Settings pane.

Where is the side pane rail next to the Copilot chat pane?
The side pane switcher becomes available only when there are two or more side panes in the
app. When Copilot chat is the only side pane, the switcher is hidden.

Why does the sitemap of an app generated by the Plan designer look
different from existing apps' sitemap?
Apps generated by the Plan designer have a streamlined sitemap. Home, Recent, Pinned, and
sitemap groups are turned off by default for a simplified flat list of navigation options in the
sitemap.

Revert to the classic look
７ Note

Starting with the 2026 Wave 1 release, the New Look is mandatory for all users. Makers can
no longer switch a model-driven app to the classic look.
Admins can turn off the New Look for all users by updating the New look for model driven apps
app setting.
1. Open https://make.powerapps.com/

.

2. Under Solutions, open an existing solution with one or more model-driven apps.
3. Select Add Existing > More > Setting.
4. Search for New look.
5. Select New look for model driven apps.
6. Select Add to add it to the solution.
7. Select New look for model driven apps from the solution explorer.
8. Update Setting Environment Value to No.
9. Add the apps to the solution for which you want to turn off new look.
10. Update the value of the apps to No.
11. Select Save.
12. Publish all customizations.
To learn more about this and other app settings, see Manage model-driven app settings in the
app designer.

Last updated on 07/31/2026

Enhanced user experience with Unified
Interface for model-driven apps
Article • 06/27/2023

Unified Interface for model-driven apps provides a consistent and accessible user
experience across devices—whether on a desktop, laptop, tablet, or phone. The apps
scale by reflowing the components on the screen. The responsive design adapts to your
environment based on screen size, so the more available space that you have, the more
information can be displayed.

For an overview of Unified Interface in model-driven apps, watch this video: Introduction
to Unified Interface

Reflow
Unified Interface is designed for a modern reflow experience.
For forms, there are pixel breakpoints that cause information on a form to move on the
screen based on the space available for the form to display in. This happens when the
display space available to the form decreases. For example, if you resize the window that
your app is in and decrease the width of the window it will decrease the space available
for the form to display in. When the width decreases past certain breakpoints,
information that would be hidden will move below where it used to be so that it is either
visible or you can vertically scroll down to see it.
When columns in a form section reflows from multiple columns to one column, it
reflows from top to bottom. When a control spans at least two columns in a section,

then it reflows from left to right (in left-to-right languages). The difference in behavior is
so that tab navigation order is kept after reflow.
In example below, each number corresponds to a control.

Navigation
The menu options let you swiftly navigate the different apps in the system. They provide
quick access to recently viewed rows and pinned favorites.

Legend
1. Click to change app: Select the current app name to change a differ app.
2. Collapse/expand button: Select this to collapse the navigator to allow more room
for the main part of the page. If the navigator is already collapsed, select this
button to expand it again.
3. Recent rows: Expand this entry to view a list of rows you were recently using.
Select a row here to open it. Select the push-pin icon next to a row listed here to
add it to your favorites (pinned rows).
4. Favorite rows: Expand this entry to view and open your favorite (pinned) rows. Use
the Recent rows list to add rows here. Select the remove-pin icon next to a row
listed here to remove it from this list.
5. Page navigation: This area lists each entity and dashboard page available for the
current work area. Select any entry here to open the named dashboard or list view
for that entity.
For more information, see Basic navigation in a model-driven app.

Dashboards and charts
You can access all the system and user dashboards from within your Unified Interface
apps. The interactive dashboards are now available for all row types with richer
interactive dashboard capabilities. For more information, see Track your progress with
dashboards and charts.

Timeline control
The timeline view helps you collaborate with your team by tracking customer
communication in a row on a single page in an easy-to-read view. You can see
everything from posts and voice attachments, to emails and notes. It provides a quick
way to see the entire communication thread. For more information, see Add an
appointment, email, phone call, notes or task activity to the timeline.

Business process
The business process flow has been improved by the docking mechanism. You can dock
the business process stage on your screen to help you stay focused on the task at hand
in your business process flow. This is especially useful when the stage of the process has
complex steps to complete. For more information, see Work with business processes.

Accessibility
The improved accessibility experience lets you use screen readers to translate on-screen
information into audible sound and print to a Braille reader so that more people can use
the app. For more information, see Use a screen reader.

Create a Unified Interface app
If you have requirements to create your own experience on Unified Interface, you can
create a model-driven app using the app designer. See Overview of building modeldriven apps.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

AI features overview
AI features in apps combine model-driven apps with intelligent automation and assistance.
Business users can supervise their team of AI agents doing work on their behalf, spot-checking
accuracy, intervening when they get blocked, and handle exceptions. Users get inline assistance
from agents, fill out forms faster, explore data more easily, and understand what changed at a
glance. AI in apps lets users supervise and interact with agents around business processes for
more efficiency and productivity.



Prerequisites
Copilot needs to be enabled for your tenant and environment, and apps need to have the new
look turned on. AI features also have their own enablement settings.

Agent supervision
Agent feed helps business users manage and work with agents directly in their apps. It makes
apps a central hub for human-agent collaboration by showing a complete activity feed of what
agents have done on their behalf, wherever they are in the app.
Add agents to be supervised in app
Supervise agents in app

AI in apps
Built-in skills help you enter, explore, and summarize data faster and better.
Data entry
Get assistance filling forms
Smart paste into forms
Draft richer text
Data exploration
Explore data in a view
Generate data visuals for a view
Summary
Create custom row summaries
See row summaries in a form and view
Copilot in apps
Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps
Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps
Chat with Copilot
Customize Copilot chat
Custom AI experiences
Use APIs to create custom AI-powered experiences
Add an agent response control

Last updated on 04/15/2026

Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in modeldriven apps
Microsoft 365 Copilot for apps is your next-generation AI assistant. It helps you explore and
understand data in your apps through natural language conversations. Use Microsoft 365 Copilot
to boost productivity with AI-powered insights and navigation.

Prerequisites
An administrator must enable Microsoft 365 Copilot in your application before it becomes visible
in your app. For more information, see Add Microsoft 365 Copilot for app users.
７ Note
To use the Microsoft 365 Copilot feature in a Power Apps app, users must have both a
Power Apps premium license and a Microsoft 365 Copilot license. For more information
about licensing, see Power Platform licensing guide .
To use the Microsoft 365 Copilot feature in a Dynamics 365 app, users must have a
Dynamics 365 Enterprise or Premium license. However, to get the full capabilities of
Work IQ, beyond Dataverse grounding, a Microsoft 365 Copilot license is required. For
more information about licensing, see Dynamics 365 licensing guide .

Copilot pane
After Microsoft 365 Copilot is enabled, you can access it through the Copilot button near the
upper-right corner of the page.

If both Microsoft 365 Copilot and Copilot chat in apps are enabled, you can switch between
them:

Chat option opens Microsoft 365 Copilot.
App Skills option opens Copilot chat in apps. These terms align with Microsoft 365 apps for
consistency.

You can expand or collapse the Microsoft 365 Copilot pane as needed.

Ask questions with Microsoft 365 Copilot
Microsoft 365 Copilot in apps answers questions about the Dataverse table data in the app.



Share your feedback
Help us improve Copilot responses by using the feedback controls on each response. Provide
feedback for every response:
If a response is high quality and helpful, select the thumbs up button.
If a response is incorrect, incomplete, or not helpful, select the thumbs down button.

When you provide feedback, share as much information as possible. For example, include what
you expected to see, what was missing or incorrect, and any relevant context. The more detail
you share, the better we can understand your feedback and continuously improve responses.



Microsoft 365 Copilot suggested questions
To help you get started, Microsoft 365 Copilot suggests questions. Many include placeholders
you can replace with appropriate text.



Use agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot
） Important
If you select an agent in Microsoft 365 Copilot in apps, it stops answering questions about
Dataverse table data unless you configure it to do so. However, the agent can still use chat
history. To get the side chat to answer questions about the Dataverse table data in the app
again, you need to remove the explicit agent selection.
You can use any agent available in Microsoft 365 Copilot directly from the side pane. When an
agent is available within Microsoft 365 Copilot, you can interact by either choosing it from the
navigation panel or @ mentioning it.



One of the benefits of @ mentioning an agent is that you can add or remove it from an ongoing
conversation, which lets you have several agents collaborating in one conversation. When you
select an agent from the navigation panel, you have a direct conversation only with the agent you
selected.

Navigate to model-driven form using citations
When results have citations, select the citation result in the side pane to navigate to the modeldriven form.

Limitations
Microsoft 365 Copilot for model-driven apps allows users to view data by using read-only
operations. This capability means that users can only view data that matches their queries
and can't make any changes. To make changes, customization with an agent is required.
Microsoft 365 Copilot for model-driven apps isn't available in the Power Apps mobile app.

Related information
Add Microsoft 365 Copilot to model-driven apps
Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps
Add Microsoft 365 Copilot for app users in canvas apps (preview)
Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in canvas apps (preview)
Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot with an agent in canvas apps (preview)

Last updated on 06/16/2026

Supervise agents in model-driven apps
with agent feed (preview)
[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
） Important
Starting May 01, 2026, agent feed will support those agents only that use the Power Apps
MCP server to create tasks. Make sure that your agents are properly onboarded to the
Power Apps MCP server by this date to continue using the agent feed. If your agents
don't use the Power Apps MCP server, the agent feed won't appear in your model-driven
app.
Agent feed enables human-agent collaboration in apps by surfacing agent-generated,
actionable tasks that users can review, validate, and complete. By using agent feed, apps act as
a collaboration surface where users supervise and interact with agent work through a unified,
task-based feed.

Prerequisite
The agent feed shows when at least one agent uses the Power Apps MCP server and is
supervised in the app. Learn how to Add agents to an app.
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use

, and are

available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
provide feedback.
This feature is being gradually rolled out across regions and might not be available
yet in your region.
This feature is only available in English language and replaces older Microsoft
Copilot Studio activity-based agent feed version.

７ Note
Currently, all users who have access to the Agent Task table can see agent feed items in
apps. To prevent unintended exposure, don't configure agents to log tasks targeted at
specific users.

Use agent feed to supervise agents
The enhanced agent feed is powered by the autonomous agents using Power Apps MCP
server. Power Apps MCP server tools enable following two core human‑agent collaboration
patterns:
1. Autonomous Dataverse record creation and updates with human‑in‑the‑loop approval
and review.
2. Agent requests for human assistance and logging tasks for human review. In
agent‑enabled apps, user focus shifts from doing the work to supervising and prioritizing
agent‑driven work. Agents help with automations and organize work, ensuring business
experts remain involved in decision-making and critical actions.
To allow users to view an agent's activity in the app, the agent must connect to Power Apps
MCP server. The agent feed appears at the top of the site map in an app.



You can view the feed in the side pane or expand it to full screen.



The feed shows a list of agent tasks. Each item can include:
Title of the task
Description of the tasks with optional steps
The agent's name and icon
A timestamp of when the task was logged



Activity is grouped into two sections:
Needs Attention: Shows tasks that are waiting for your input or need your attention.
These tasks are logged by using the request_assistance or invoke_data_entry MCP tools.
Completed: Displays all other agent feed tasks, including tasks the user completed and
tasks the agent completed that are logged for review by using the request_review MCP
tool.
By default, each section loads 20 agent tasks and lazy loading is enabled as you scroll. The
sections are sorted chronologically by the last modification date of each action.

You can filter the feed by agents.



View the agent feed in a side pane to support multitasking or expand it to full screen for
focused review.

Take action on agent activity
Take these actions on tasks under the needs attention tab in agent feed:
Complete: Move a task from the needs attention section to Completed after completing
the task the agent couldn't finish. This action is available for the agent tasks logged by
using the request_assistance mcp tool.

Accept and complete: Move a data entry task from the Needs attention section to
Completed after reviewing and accepting the data entry suggestions from

invoke_data_entry mcp tool. The Accept and complete button is available inside the
agent pane associated with the agent feed task.



Dismiss: Remove a data entry task logged via invoke_data_entry mcp tool from the
Needs attention section if it's no longer relevant. The Dismiss button is available inside
the agent pane associated with the agent feed task.



７ Note
You can perform all actions either from the main screen in the feed or from the details
page of a specific action.
Request_review tasks: Tasks logged via request_review mcp tool don't have any actions
for the users. They're informational tasks completed autonomously by agent and can be
found in completed agent feed tab.

Navigation from agent feed item
Agent feed tasks generated through the request_assistance or request_review MCP tools can
reference a Dataverse record as a related navigation link in the agent description. This
reference allows users to easily open and review associated data when interacting with the feed
item.



Insights panel
The default insights panel complements the agent feed by giving users a clear, aggregated
view of how their agents and users collaborate over time. While the agent feed surfaces
individual tasks and actions in the moment, the Insights chart provides a historical, high‑level
representation of those interactions. This representation helps organizations understand the

true patterns of human–agent collaboration, whether users step in to provide missing context,
guide agents through a complex workflow, complete tasks directly, or monitor agent activity.
By visualizing these trends over time, organizations gain transparency into how their agentic
workflows actually operate in practice, strengthening trust, identifying friction points, and
revealing opportunities to improve system reliability and user experience.



The insights chart presents aggregated activity across the last 7, 14, or 30 days. It gives
customers a time‑based snapshot of collaboration between agents and users. Activity is
categorized into two groups:
Tasks completed by agents
Tasks completed by users These at‑a‑glance aggregations offer a concise understanding
of collaboration volume and balance over time. They help teams quickly assess how work
is distributed across human and agent participants.

Related information
Add agents to an app
Customize Copilot Chat

Last updated on 04/07/2026

Use AI form fill assistance feature in modeldriven apps
Form fill assistance suggests AI-generated content for fields, making it easier and faster to
enter data in forms. The suggestions are entirely optional and aren't saved until the user
explicitly reviews and accepts them.

Prerequisites
Form fill assistance is available for all apps on the web where the modern, refreshed look
is turned on.
Requires at least one of the AI form fill assistance environment feature settings enabled.
The Allow form fill assistance column property is enabled for the column where form fill
assistance occurs. For more information, see Create and edit columns in Dataverse using
Power Apps.

Limitations
Inside apps, suggestions are provided for fields only in main forms and quick create
forms. In Microsoft 365 Copilot chat, suggestions are provided for fields based on main
forms only.
The currently supported field types inside apps are text, numeric, choice, and date. The
currently supported field types inside Microsoft 365 Copilot chat are text, numeric, choice,
date, and lookup.
Fields that have column security aren't currently supported.

Use form fill assistance in apps
Form fill assistance in apps (Power Apps and Dynamics 365) provides suggestions for blank
form fields in three ways:
1. Based on the user's usage of the app, what information is already available in the form,
and their frequently used data.
2. Based on the copied text the user provides through the Smart paste capability.
3. Based on the file contents the user provides through the Files capability.

The feature generates suggestions only for the open tab. It presents suggestions inline in the
form.

Suggestions are entirely optional and aren't saved in the app until you accept them. To learn
more about a suggestion, hover over the field, and specifically hover over the information icon.
This icon is a citation, and identifies the source of a specific suggestion, such as "Records you
have updated recently" or "Clipboard".

To accept a specific suggestion, hover over the field, and then select Accept. Alternatively,
select the field, and then press the Enter key.

To accept all suggestions on the open tab of the form, select Accept all suggestions on the
notification bar. To clear all suggestions on the open tab of the form, select Clear all
suggestions.

To replace a suggestion with a different value, select the field and start typing to overwrite the
suggestion. Alternatively, select the field, press Backspace or Delete, and then start typing.
If you have unsaved suggestions in a form and try to navigate away, you get a prompt asking if
you want to discard those suggestions. The suggestions are saved only when you accept them.

You can continue navigating away or stay on the form to review your pending suggestions. You
can also select Do not show again to avoid being prompted in the future.

To provide feedback about the feature, select the thumbs up or down button on the
notification bar, and optionally provide detailed comments to help improve the feature.

） Important
This feature is generally available in Dynamics 365 apps.

This feature is in production ready preview in Power Apps.
Preview features are available before an official release so that customers can get
early access and provide feedback.
Due to high demand, this feature might be unavailable intermittently. If the feature is
unavailable, try again later.

Use smart paste
Smart paste is a capability that analyzes the form and the text or image you copy to your
clipboard. It suggests what text could fill specific fields and provides suggestions inline in the
form. To use smart paste (preview):
1. Copy the text or image you want to use to fill in the form.
2. Select the smart paste icon in the command bar. Alternatively, make sure you don't select
any specific fields in the form, and then use the regular paste keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+V
or Cmd+V).
To use the smart paste (preview) capability, your admin must enable it. For more information,
see Manage feature settings.
You can continue to paste directly, without smart paste (preview), into a specific field by
selecting that field first and then pasting.

Use toolbar and files

Files is a capability that can reason over the form and the file you provide to suggest what text
could fill specific fields. It provides suggestions inline in the form. Supported file types are .txt,
.docx, .csv, .pdf, .png, .jpg, .jpeg, and .bmp. Files classified with sensitivity labels aren't
supported.
The form fill assist toolbar
1. Show or hide the form fill assist toolbar by using the show/hide button.
2. To provide feedback, select the more actions button (...) and give a compliment, report a
problem, or make a suggestion.
3. The smart paste button is now located to the left of the toolbar.

To use files:
1. Use the file selector button to select the file you want to use to fill in the form.
Alternatively, drag and drop the file in the toolbar.
2. Hover over the file's source tag to identify which fields are suggested based on the file's
contents.
3. To accept all suggestions from the sources listed in the toolbar, select the accept all
button located to the right of the toolbar. This button identifies the number of open
suggestions in the form that it accepts.
4. To clear suggestions from the file, select the clear button in the tag. If the toolbar lists
multiple sources, clear all suggestions by using the clear all button in the toolbar.

Licensing requirements
The form fill assistance requires specific user licenses based on the product. If the user doesn't
have the license, the feature is hidden. This license enforcement will gradually rollout following
the feature's general availability.
Power Apps model-driven app: The user must have a Power Apps premium license. For
details, see the Power Platform License Guide

.

Dynamics 365 model-driven app: The user must have a Dynamics 365 enterprise or
premium license as outlined in Dynamics 365 License Guide

.

Usage might be subject to service limits or throttling. Microsoft reserves the right to update
the limits.

Admin control
The primary admin control for form fill assistance is moving to the Power Platform admin
center under Copilot > Settings > Power Apps > Data entry. Learn more in Copilot hub. This is
gradually rolling out over the next coming weeks.
Smart paste ( FormPredictSmartPasteEnabled ) or form fill assist toolbar
( FormFileUploadEnabled ) app settings previously available in Power Platform admin center
Environment > Settings > Product > Features page is moving and you can configure this
setting at the app level either by using Manage model-driven app settings in the app designer
or Updating a setting definition.

Use form fill assistance with agents in Microsoft 365
Copilot (preview)
[This section is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
With Microsoft 365 Copilot, you have ability to bring app-based experiences to agents. The
app experience can leverage the form fill assistance right in the chat.

） Important
This is a preview feature.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use

, and are

available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
provide feedback.
This feature is being gradually rolled out across regions and might not be available
yet in your region.

７ Note
To use this capability, you need to set up an apps agent in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
When you interact with agents in Copilot, agents can surface forms from apps directly in the
conversation. Form fill assistance helps populate these forms by suggesting values based on
relevant context, such as existing data you have access to from emails, chats, or any document.
The suggestions appear inline in the chat-based form and you can review or edit them before
submission. All suggestions are optional and aren't saved until you explicitly accept and save
the input.
After submission, the data is saved to the connected app and is available, just as if you
complete the form directly in the app.

Related information
Manage model-driven app settings in the app designer
Create and edit columns in Dataverse using Power Apps
Responsible AI FAQ about form fill assistance
Complete forms quickly with model-driven apps (video)

Last updated on 04/21/2026

Find data in a view with AI
Users can quickly find, filter, and sort their data by using natural language, so they don't need
to use complicated advanced filters. If your administrator turns on Natural Language Grid and
View Search, you see the natural language search box.

Natural language search in apps
Use smart grid natural language search to ask data-related questions in natural language. For
example, request “cases with high priority with overdue follow-up by date” to filter your view
and display only those relevant cases.

Licensing requirements
Natural language grid and view search requires specific user licenses based on the product. If
the user doesn't have the license, the feature is hidden. This license enforcement will gradually
rollout following the feature's general availability.
Power Apps model-driven app: The user must have a Power Apps premium license. For
details, see the Power Platform License Guide

.

Dynamics 365 model-driven app: The user must have a Dynamics 365 enterprise or
premium license as outlined in Dynamics 365 License Guide

.

Usage might be subject to service limits or throttling. Microsoft reserves the right to update
the limits.

Admin control
The primary admin control for Natural Language Grid and View Search is moving to the Power
Platform admin center under Copilot > Settings > Power Apps > Data exploration. Learn
more in Copilot hub. This is gradually rolling out over the next coming weeks.

Natural language grid and view search app setting ( NLGridSearchSetting ) previously available
in Power Platform admin center Environment > Settings > Product > Features page is moving
and you can configure this setting at the app level either by using Manage model-driven app
settings in the app designer or Updating a setting definition.

Explore data with agents in Microsoft 365 Copilot
(preview)
[This section is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
With Microsoft 365 Copilot you have the ability to bring app-based experiences to agents, the
app experience can also use the AI assisted search in the grid view.
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use

, and are

available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
provide feedback.
This feature is being gradually rolled out across regions and might not be available
yet in your region.

７ Note
To use this capability, you need to set up an apps agent in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
When users interact with agents in M365 Copilot, the agents can search and retrieve data from
apps view directly within the conversation. By using natural language, users can find, filter, and
review app data without switching to the app experience. Natural language search interprets
the user's request and applies the appropriate filters, sorting, and text search against the
underlying view data. The agent returns the results in Copilot chat, presented in a structured,
tabular format that reflects the view data. Users can continue to work with the returned results
in the conversation, iterating with natural language to refine the output until it reflects the
exact results they’re looking for.

Supported features
Filtering of records
Sorting
Text search

Known limitations
These capabilities aren't supported:
Query aggregation
Query grouping

Adding columns

Considerations
After you run a query, check the generated filter tags to make sure that the filter
conditions were correctly interpreted from your natural language query. If any part of
your query is missing from the filter tags, the results aren't filtered by that condition.
If search doesn't give the desired results, consider modifying your query by:
Referring to data columns by the names shown in the grid header.
Separating multiple conditions with commas or periods.
In model-driven app for grids, if your search string has two words or fewer, the search
does a text search. To do a natural language search, use more than two words. To do a
text search with more than two words, put the search term in single or double quotes.
This behavior doesn't apply to Copilot chat.

Last updated on 04/21/2026

Visualize data in a view with AI
Chart visualization helps you visualize the data in the view as a chart. This visualization makes it
easy to understand trends, patterns, and relationships in your data. The visualization is
interactive, based on the visible columns in the view, and you can personalize it to support
further data exploration.

Prerequisites
All apps on the web support chart visualization when the modern, refreshed look is turned
on.
See License requirements and Admin control for additional settings.

Visualize data in a view
When you navigate to a grid page, you can see the Visualize option on top of the page.



When you select Visualize, the chart pane opens next to the grid, complementing the table of
rows. If the table has system or personal charts, the default chart for the table appears. If the
table doesn't have charts, AI generates a visualization for the view based on the visible columns
and filters. The visualization is a chart that aggregates the data in the view.





If chart visualization generates a visualization for the view, you can edit the chart by changing
the chart type, the columns that are visualized, or both. If you add or remove columns from the
view, chart visualization regenerates the chart based on the updated set of columns for the
visualization. If you add or remove filters, chart visualization refreshes the chart without
changing the visualization. The asterisk (*) next to the chart name shows that the chart isn't
saved yet.

Select the three dots in the upper-right corner of the chart pane, and then select Save As to
save the chart.

Chart visualization automatically populates the chart name and description, but you can edit
them to suit your needs. Select Save to save the chart. You access the saved chart by using the
chart switcher in the chart pane. The Visualize icon next to the chart name indicates that it's an
AI-generated chart, helping you distinguish it from other charts.

To manage a personal chart, select the chart in the chart switcher, and then select the three
dots in the upper-right corner of the chart pane. Select an option to delete, assign, or share the
chart with others in your organization.

Hover over the charts to examine data points or select chart elements to drill into the data. The
grid filters rows automatically to match the selected area of the chart. Selecting the same area
of the chart again toggles the selection and removes the filter.
７ Note
Charts created by using the legacy chart designer use the same styling as AI-generated
charts. To learn how to turn off the styling update for charts created by using the legacy
chart designer, see Manage feature settings.

Visualize data in a view with natural language
Use natural language prompts in the search bar on the grid page to visualize data in the view.
Here are example prompts to help you understand the types of requests supported.
Visualize data as a bar chart.

Customers by location. Use the prompt [table name] by [column] generically depending on
the table you're visualizing.
Trend of orders created during this fiscal year.
Visualize average revenue per month as a column chart.
Visualize high-priority cases as a chart.
Visualize data as a bubble chart.

Chart pane

1. Chart title: AI-generated title for the chart based on the data and columns visualized.
2. Chart switcher: Select and manage saved charts. Use it to switch between different charts,
including AI-generated and personal charts, for the current view.
3. Create new chart with AI: AI-generated chart for the visualization of this view.
4. Commands to manage saved chart: The Commands to manage saved chart appear as
three dots in the top-right corner of the chart pane. They provide options to perform
actions on saved charts.

5. Expand: Select Expand to expand the chart to full screen for a better view of the chart
area.
6. Close: Select Close to close the chart pane.
7. Chart selector: List of 11 supported chart types – Pie, Donut, Bar, Column, Clustered Bar,
Stacked Bar, Clustered Column, Stacked Column, Line, Histogram, and Bubble chart.
8. Edit chart columns: Customize the chart by selecting which columns from the view are
visualized.
9. Copy: Select Copy to copy the chart as a PNG file to the clipboard.
10. Feedback: Select Thumbs up or Thumbs Down to provide feedback about the feature.
To provide feedback about the feature, select the thumbs up or down button on the chart
pane, and provide detailed comments to help improve the feature.

Licensing requirements
The visualize data in a view requires specific user licenses based on the product. If the user
doesn't have the license, the feature is hidden. This license enforcement will gradually rollout
following the feature's general availability.
Power Apps model-driven app: The user must have a Power Apps premium license. For
details, see the Power Platform License Guide

.

Dynamics 365 model-driven app: The user must have a Dynamics 365 enterprise or
premium license as outlined in Dynamics 365 License Guide

.

Usage might be subject to service limits or throttling. Microsoft reserves the right to update
the limits.

Admin control
The primary admin control for visualize data in a view is moving to the Power Platform admin
center under Copilot > Settings > Power Apps > Data exploration > Chart Visualization.
Learn more in Copilot hub. This is gradually rolling out over the next coming weeks.
Allow AI to generate charts to visualize the data in a view app setting
( NLChartDataVisualizationSetting ) previously available in Power Platform admin center
Environment > Settings > Product > Features page is moving and you can configure this
setting at the app level either by using Manage model-driven app settings in the app designer
or Updating a setting definition.

Related information
Manage feature settings
Responsible AI FAQ about Copilot visualizations on a view

Last updated on 04/21/2026

Use row summaries in model-driven apps
The Row summary feature in apps provides users with a concise, AI-generated overview of key
details about a record. Summaries help users quickly understand essential information without
manually scanning fields, related records, or activity timelines. You see summaries as a
paragraph or bullet points, so they're easy to read.
Summaries can be accessed in two ways:
From the Insights bar at the top of main forms.
From view pages by selecting the inline Summary action in the grid, which opens the
summary for a record in a modal popup.
The feature enhances user efficiency by delivering context-rich insights directly within the form.
Users can interact with summaries to copy content, regenerate updated information, and
provide feedback on their relevance, improving both usability and accuracy.

Prerequisite
Each of the following settings must be turned on to see the row summaries for apps.
The AI insight cards toggle is turned on for the Power Platform environment.

Feature details
Accessing record summaries
View the record summary from a form or view when a table is configured to display summaries.
Forms: When viewing a record in a main form, the summary appears in the insights bar at
the top of the main form.



７ Note
You see the record summary after you save a new record. If you haven't saved the record,
the summary area stays hidden.
Views: When browsing records in a view, select the inline Summary action next to a
record to open the summary in a modal popup.



Interacting with summaries
Here are some actions you can take with summaries:
Copy: Select to copy the summary content directly to your clipboard for easy sharing or
documentation. The summary copies in markdown format, so when you paste it into
other applications, the formatting might not appear exactly as it appears in the app.
Feedback: Use the thumbs up or thumbs down icons to rate the summary's usefulness.
Your feedback helps improve future summaries so they better meet your expectations
and needs.

Refresh (forms only): Select the Refresh button to regenerate the summary so it reflects
the latest updates to the record.
Expand/Collapse (forms only): In forms, the insights bar is collapsed by default and shows
a one-line peek of the summary. Expand the insights bar to see more details.



Licensing requirements
The row summary feature requires specific user licenses based on the product. If the user
doesn't have the license, the feature is hidden. This license enforcement will gradually rollout
following the feature's general availability.
Power Apps model-driven app: The user must have a Power Apps premium license. For
details, see the Power Platform License Guide

.

Dynamics 365 model-driven app: The user must have a Dynamics 365 enterprise or
premium license as outlined in Dynamics 365 License Guide

.

Usage might be subject to service limits or throttling. Microsoft reserves the right to update
the limits.

Admin control
The primary admin control for row summary is moving to the Power Platform admin center
under Copilot > Settings > Power Apps > Summary > Row summaries. Learn more about the
Copilot hub here.
The AI insight cards app setting (EnableFormInsights) for main forms, previously available in
Power Platform admin center Settings > Product > Features is being moved and you can
configure this setting at the app level either by using the Model App Designer Setting or
Solution Explorer App Settings.

Related information
Manage feature settings
Configuring summaries for tables

Last updated on 04/21/2026

Use AI-generated timeline highlights
If timeline highlights are enabled on your app, Copilot creates an AI-generated, bulleted list
that populates at the top of the timeline. You can use timeline highlights to quickly get caught
up on a record's status.
The highlights include a record's main activities, such as details about who you or the previous
user interacted with, the reported issue, and actions taken to try to resolve the issue.
You can copy the timeline highlights by selecting Copy.

） Important
This feature is only available with Power Platform environments with Dataverse that have
the Enable Dynamics 365 apps setting enabled.

Last updated on 02/04/2026

Use Copilot case summary in model-driven
apps
07/08/2025

Copilot case summaries help users quickly understand the context of a case and resolve
customer issues more efficiently. The case summary includes key information such as the case
title, customer, subject, product, priority, case type, and description.

View case summary card
Copilot case summary is enabled by default for all model-driven apps that use the incident
table. When you open a case record, the case summary card appears. When you open the case
or custom record in a new session the summary card is expanded by default until you collapse
it for the first time. The card then remains in collapsed state
Based on the case form configured, users see the summary either on the top of the case form
or within the form.
７ Note
Users won't see case summary cards on case forms
By default, if their organization has opted out of the automatic enablement of
Copilot feature.
If case summary is disabled in the experience profile.
Users can see the case form displayed on the top of all case forms except Case for
Interactive experience, Enhanced full case form, Case, and Case for Multisession
experience forms. Users can copy the summary, refresh it, regenerate the summary, and
provide feedback.

Users can see the case form displayed within the case form for Case for Interactive
experience, Enhanced full case form, Case, and Case for Multisession experience forms.
Users can copy the summary, translate the summary into multiple languages, refresh it,
regenerate the summary, and provide feedback.

If custom record summary is enabled, users see the custom record displayed on top of
the form by default.

Supervise agents in model-driven apps
with agent feed (preview)
[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
） Important
Starting May 01, 2026, agent feed will support those agents only that use the Power Apps
MCP server to create tasks. Make sure that your agents are properly onboarded to the
Power Apps MCP server by this date to continue using the agent feed. If your agents
don't use the Power Apps MCP server, the agent feed won't appear in your model-driven
app.
Agent feed enables human-agent collaboration in apps by surfacing agent-generated,
actionable tasks that users can review, validate, and complete. By using agent feed, apps act as
a collaboration surface where users supervise and interact with agent work through a unified,
task-based feed.

Prerequisite
The agent feed shows when at least one agent uses the Power Apps MCP server and is
supervised in the app. Learn how to Add agents to an app.
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use

, and are

available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
provide feedback.
This feature is being gradually rolled out across regions and might not be available
yet in your region.
This feature is only available in English language and replaces older Microsoft
Copilot Studio activity-based agent feed version.

７ Note
Currently, all users who have access to the Agent Task table can see agent feed items in
apps. To prevent unintended exposure, don't configure agents to log tasks targeted at
specific users.

Use agent feed to supervise agents
The enhanced agent feed is powered by the autonomous agents using Power Apps MCP
server. Power Apps MCP server tools enable following two core human‑agent collaboration
patterns:
1. Autonomous Dataverse record creation and updates with human‑in‑the‑loop approval
and review.
2. Agent requests for human assistance and logging tasks for human review. In
agent‑enabled apps, user focus shifts from doing the work to supervising and prioritizing
agent‑driven work. Agents help with automations and organize work, ensuring business
experts remain involved in decision-making and critical actions.
To allow users to view an agent's activity in the app, the agent must connect to Power Apps
MCP server. The agent feed appears at the top of the site map in an app.



You can view the feed in the side pane or expand it to full screen.



The feed shows a list of agent tasks. Each item can include:
Title of the task
Description of the tasks with optional steps
The agent's name and icon
A timestamp of when the task was logged



Activity is grouped into two sections:
Needs Attention: Shows tasks that are waiting for your input or need your attention.
These tasks are logged by using the request_assistance or invoke_data_entry MCP tools.
Completed: Displays all other agent feed tasks, including tasks the user completed and
tasks the agent completed that are logged for review by using the request_review MCP
tool.
By default, each section loads 20 agent tasks and lazy loading is enabled as you scroll. The
sections are sorted chronologically by the last modification date of each action.

You can filter the feed by agents.



View the agent feed in a side pane to support multitasking or expand it to full screen for
focused review.

Take action on agent activity
Take these actions on tasks under the needs attention tab in agent feed:
Complete: Move a task from the needs attention section to Completed after completing
the task the agent couldn't finish. This action is available for the agent tasks logged by
using the request_assistance mcp tool.

Accept and complete: Move a data entry task from the Needs attention section to
Completed after reviewing and accepting the data entry suggestions from

invoke_data_entry mcp tool. The Accept and complete button is available inside the
agent pane associated with the agent feed task.



Dismiss: Remove a data entry task logged via invoke_data_entry mcp tool from the
Needs attention section if it's no longer relevant. The Dismiss button is available inside
the agent pane associated with the agent feed task.



７ Note
You can perform all actions either from the main screen in the feed or from the details
page of a specific action.
Request_review tasks: Tasks logged via request_review mcp tool don't have any actions
for the users. They're informational tasks completed autonomously by agent and can be
found in completed agent feed tab.

Navigation from agent feed item
Agent feed tasks generated through the request_assistance or request_review MCP tools can
reference a Dataverse record as a related navigation link in the agent description. This
reference allows users to easily open and review associated data when interacting with the feed
item.



Insights panel
The default insights panel complements the agent feed by giving users a clear, aggregated
view of how their agents and users collaborate over time. While the agent feed surfaces
individual tasks and actions in the moment, the Insights chart provides a historical, high‑level
representation of those interactions. This representation helps organizations understand the

true patterns of human–agent collaboration, whether users step in to provide missing context,
guide agents through a complex workflow, complete tasks directly, or monitor agent activity.
By visualizing these trends over time, organizations gain transparency into how their agentic
workflows actually operate in practice, strengthening trust, identifying friction points, and
revealing opportunities to improve system reliability and user experience.



The insights chart presents aggregated activity across the last 7, 14, or 30 days. It gives
customers a time‑based snapshot of collaboration between agents and users. Activity is
categorized into two groups:
Tasks completed by agents
Tasks completed by users These at‑a‑glance aggregations offer a concise understanding
of collaboration volume and balance over time. They help teams quickly assess how work
is distributed across human and agent participants.

Related information
Add agents to an app
Customize Copilot Chat

Last updated on 04/07/2026

Use Copilot chat in model-driven apps
Copilot chat for model-driven apps in Power Apps is a next-generation AI assistant that helps
you gain insights into the data in your apps through conversations in natural language. Copilot
chat helps you boost your productivity through AI-powered insights and navigation assistance.
） Important
This feature is generally available in Dynamics 365 apps, but remains a preview
feature in Power Apps.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality These features are subject to supplemental terms of use

, and are

available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
provide feedback.

７ Note
Copilot chat in Power Apps is a preview feature that will be deprecated for model-driven
apps in environments not enabled for Dynamics 365 apps, starting January 2026. We
recommend switching to Microsoft 365 Copilot chat. During the transition period, makers
can enable either one or both chat experiences. For more information, see Deprecation of
Copilot chat in model-driven apps

Prerequisites
An administrator must enable Copilot chat in your application before it becomes visible in your
app. More information: Add Copilot for app users in model-driven apps.

Copilot pane
After Copilot chat is enabled, you can access it through the Copilot icon near the upper-right
corner of the page or through the Copilot icon at the right side of the command bar. You can
expand or collapse the Copilot pane as you want. By default, the pane is expanded after
Copilot chat is enabled.

Use Copilot to ask questions
Copilot chat in model-driven apps can answer questions about the Dataverse table data in the
app. It can also help you navigate the app. For example, if you enter Navigate to challenges,
Copilot automatically opens the relevant page in the app.

Copilot chat suggested questions
To help you get started, Copilot chat can suggest questions for you to ask. You can edit and
personalize these questions (also known as prompts) based on your app and the type of
insight that you need from Copilot.
To view more suggested questions, select View prompts in the Copilot pane. Many of the
suggested questions have placeholders that you must replace with appropriate text to
complete the question.

Use the record picker
When you ask a question, you can use the record picker to select the object of your question.
The record picker helps Copilot chat understand the context of your question and provide a
more accurate response.
Enter a slash (/) to open the record picker, and then enter the name of the record. Select the
record that you want, and complete the question to make it meaningful. Finally, submit the
question to Copilot to view the response.
For example, you ask Copilot "What are the details for Contoso?" Many accounts might have
"Contoso" in their name, such as Contoso, Inc., Contoso Co., and Contoso NW. What you really
want are the details for Contoso, Inc. The record picker helps Copilot scope the question to the
right record for a more relevant and accurate response.



The record picker is available in Dynamics 365 Sales and Power Apps model-driven apps.
７ Note
By using the record picker, you increase the likelihood that Copilot chat can
understand your question and therefore respond with an accurate answer.
The record picker requires that Dataverse search is enabled and configured for the
type-ahead search capability.

Provide feedback
Unless your admin turned off the feedback feature, every Copilot response includes a Like
button ("thumbs up" icon) and a Dislike button ("thumbs down" icon). For each response, you
can select one of these icons to provide feedback that helps us improve Copilot chat. Select the
"thumbs up" or "thumbs down" icon as appropriate. Optionally, provide feedback in your own
words about what you liked or didn't like about the response. When you're done, select
Submit.

Last updated on 01/08/2026

Basic navigation in a model-driven app
Article • 01/16/2025

This introduction explains how to find and open an app, and how to work with its
common user interface elements including lists, forms, and business processes.

Navigating among apps, areas, and tables
A model-driven app is built out of applications (apps), areas, and tables.
Apps provide a collection of functionalities for accomplishing a specific class of
activity, such as managing your accounts and contacts. Use the app-selector menu
to navigate between the apps that are available to your organization.
A work area is a subdivision of an app, dedicated to a specific feature. Each work
area provides a targeted collection of tables for working in that area. In some
cases, the same table appears in more than one area (or even more than one app).
The Contact and Account tables, for example, appear in various apps and work
areas. Use the work-area menu to navigate between work areas for your current
app.
Tables represent a specific type of data, such as contacts or accounts. Tables use a
structured data format, which defines the collection of columns available to the
table. Each table consists of a collection of individual rows. For example, for the
Contact table, each row describes a single person, and each row includes a
collection of columns such as first name, last name, and email address. Tables
normally present two views: a list view, which is typically a table listing available
rows; and a form view, which shows all available data and settings for a single row.
Use the side navigator to move between tables in your current work area.

User info and sign out
Select the user menu to view your account information or sign out. Go to your account
page by selecting the View account hyperlink.

Move between apps
Use the app-selector menu to switch between apps.
1. Select the current app name.
2. On the Apps page, select an app. You'll only see apps for your organization.

Move between pages and rows
It's easy to get around and get back to your favorite or most-used rows. The following
illustration shows the primary navigation elements.

Legend
1. Click to change app: Select the current app name to change to a different app.
2. Collapse/expand site map: Select this to collapse the navigator to allow more
room for the main part of the page. If the navigator is already collapsed, select this
button to expand it again.
3. Recent: Expand this entry to view a list of rows you were recently using. Select a
row here to open it. Select the push-pin icon next to a row listed here to add it to
your pinned rows. This is limited to displaying the last 10 rows of pages most
recently loaded across apps for the user within this organization.
4. Pinned: Expand this entry to view and open your favorite pinned rows. Use the
Recent list to add rows here. Select the remove-pin icon next to a row listed here
to remove it from this list. The number of pinned rows displayed is limited to 25,
but no more than 15 rows from a single table are displayed.
5. Page navigation: This area lists each table and dashboard page available for the
current work area. Select any entry here to open the named dashboard or list view
for that table.

７ Note
When a user sets a dashboard as default (via the Set as default action in the
command bar), all page navigation to dashboards will take the user to the
default dashboard, which may be a different dashboard than the named
dashboard the user selected.
6. Collapsible groups: Your app maker can enable collapsible groups. For information
on how to customize the navigation bar, see Overview of the model-driven app
designer.
If your screen is zoomed in too much or is narrow, then you won't see your current app
name which lets you change apps. To access the change app button, select Site map >
Apps.

Hide or show the Home, Pinned, Recent, and collapsible
groups
Your site map might look different if it's been customized. Your app maker can
customize the navigation bar to show or hide the Home, Recent, Pinned buttons in the
site map. An app maker can also make groups collapsible. For information on how to
customize the navigation bar, see Overview of the model-driven app designer.

Area switcher
In the left-hand navigation pane, the area switcher appears at the bottom left only when
a single model-driven app has more than one area in the sitemap definition.
Open this menu to move to another work area. The current work area is named here.

Go back
Use the back button for form, view, and dashboard pages on the command bar to go
back to the previous page.

To go back to the previous page, select the Go back button.

Working with list views
Usually, when you first open a table, you'll see the list view, which shows a list of rows
belonging to that table, formatted as a table. For example, if you open the Products
table, you'll see a list of accounts.

Legend:
1. Go back: Select to go back to the previous page.
2. Select rows: Select one or more rows by placing a check mark in this column.
Depending on where you're working, you might be able to apply a single
operation to all the selected rows at once by using buttons in the command bar.

Note, when you use the Email a link command on the command bar you can only
select up to 10 rows to send via email.
3. Open a row: Select any row in the list to open its row view, which shows all the
details about the row. Usually you select from the Name column to open a row
from the current table. Some tables provide links to rows from related tables in
other columns (such as a related contact).
4. Sort or filter the list: Select to sort the list by values in that column or filter the list
by values in that column. An arrow in the column heading indicates which column
is being sorted and in which direction.
5. Open advanced filtering panel: See which filters are applied to the current view
and add or modify view filters.
6. Command bar: Use the commands in the command bar to operate on rows in the
list and do related actions. Some commands (such as Delete) require that you first
select one or more target rows by placing a check mark in the leftmost column,
while others operate on the entire list. You can export the list to an Excel workbook
(possibly based on a template), open charts and dashboards, and more, depending
on the type of rows you're working with.
7. Search the view: Enter text in the search column above the list to show only those
rows in the current view that contain your text.
8. Jump bar and paging: Select a letter to show only those rows whose names start
with that letter. If the list contains more rows than can be shown on one page, use
the paging arrows at the bottom of the list to move forward and backward
through the pages.

Working with row views
Row views show all the details about a single row and sometimes also provide special
features for working with it. Usually you'll open a row view by selecting a row that
appears in a list view, but you can also open a row view by following a link from a
related row.

Legend:
1. Tabs: Most row views are divided into tabs. Each tab provides a collection of
related columns from the row. When tabs are available, they're listed below the
row name. Select any tab name to go to that tab. The current tab is shown
underlined.
2. Related: Nearly all types of rows show a Related tab after you've saved them at
least once. This tab is actually a drop-down list that you can use to find other types
of rows that use or reference the displayed row. When you choose a table name
from the Related drop-down list, a new tab named for that table opens, showing a
list of all related rows of that type. The Related tab remains available, and you can
still use it to find other types of rows that reference the current one.
3. Command bar: Use the commands in the command bar to operate on the current
row or perform a task related to the row. The available commands vary based on
the row type, but you can typically use the command bar to save your changes,
delete the row, refresh the page, email a link to the row, reassign the row owner, or
export the row by using a Word template.
4. Heading bar: Some row views display a few especially important columns in the
heading bar, opposite the row name. These are typically columns that are
fundamental to working with rows of the current type (such as a row name or row
owner).
5. View and edit all column values: In the main body of the row view, you'll find all of
the columns related to the current tab, form view, and row type. Columns marked
with a red asterisk are required, and you can't save the row without their having
valid values. Columns marked with a blue plus sign are especially important or

recommended, but aren't strictly required. Columns showing a lock icon are read
only and can't be edited.

Row set navigation
Navigate through multiple rows by using preset views and queries. The row-focused
navigation improves productivity by allowing users to jump from row to row in the list
and easily navigate back without losing their working list.
The number of rows that you see in the row set navigation pane is based on the number
of rows that your system administrator has defined for the subgrid.
1. To use row set navigation, open a page with a list of rows.
2. Open a row and then select Open Row Set

and then select a row from the list.

Reference panel
The reference panel is a great way to get work done without moving away from the
screen you're on. You can look up other related items—such as reviews or reservations
for a product—within the context of the row you're viewing, without having to navigate
to other screens.

Watch the How to use the Reference panel in the Customer Service Hub

video to learn

more about the reference panel.

App message bar
The app message bar shows three types of notifications: informational, warning, and
error.
When you select the error notification, it will take you to the column on the form where
the error occurred.

Legend:
1. Information notifications
2. Warning notifications
3. Error notifications

: The notification is informational.
: The notification is a warning.

: The notification is an error.

Multiple notifications
If there's only one notification, you'll see a single line. If there are multiple notifications,
you'll see chevron button. Select the chevron to view each message.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

In-app notifications in model-driven
apps
Article • 12/13/2022

In-app notifications allow you to receive notifications in the notification center of your
model-driven app. Notifications are stored in the notification center until you dismiss
them or when they expire. By default, notifications expire in 14 days but your system
administrator can modify the expiration date.
You only see notifications when you're using an app. That's when the system runs a
check and displays any new notification. Notifications are at the organization level so
you'll see notifications in the app you're using for all apps in your environment.

Notification center
The notification bell icon shows the count of new notifications. When you open the
notification center the count is cleared. To access your notifications, select the bell
icon on the nav bar.

To dismiss and delete a notification, select the close X button on a notification. Or,
select Dismiss all to dismiss and delete all notifications.

Toast notifications
Toast notifications appear temporarily to the right side of your app. When multiple
notifications appear, they are stacked. When there's more than three toast notifications
at the same time, you'll get a toast letting you know that there's more notifications. You
can use the F2 shortcut key to access the notification toasts.

Your system administrator can enable or disable toast notifications. If toasts are enabled,
you can turn them off at a user level. Regardless of the toast being shown, all
notifications can be accessed from notification center.
1. To enable or disable toast notifications in the notification center, select Settings

2. To enable or disable toast notifications, do one of the following:
To enable toast notifications: Move the toggle to On and then enter how
many seconds the toast will show.
To disable toast notifications: Move the toggle to Off.

3. When you're done, select Save.

See also
In-app notifications on Power Apps mobile
Send in-app notifications within model-driven apps

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

View your user information
Article • 10/22/2024

The user information page displays useful information about you and your organization. On
the page you can view your contact information, your security role, and information about your
organization. Depending on your security role, you might be able to make changes to your
user profile.
1. Open an app and in the upper-right corner of the screen, select Settings

>

Personalization Settings.

2. On the General tab, scroll down to the bottom and select the user information link.

3. On the user information page, select the different tabs, such as Summary, Details, or
Administration to see details about your profile.

Set personal options
Article • 11/27/2023

Change your display settings in an app to suit your preferences. For example, you can
choose the page that you want to see as soon as you sign in to the app. You can also
personalize many other options such as language, currency, and time zone.
７ Note
You may need to refresh your app twice for some changed settings to take effect.

To set personal options
1. In the upper-right corner of the screen, select Settings

> Personalization

Settings.
2. Fill in the information, as required.
3. When you’re done, select OK.

General tab options
ﾉ

Options

Expand table

Description

Select your home page
and settings for Get
Started panes
Default Pane

Select the default home pane (page) that you want to see when you
sign in. By default, the Default based on user role option is selected,
which shows the default pane based on the app you are using. This
option does not apply when you sign in using the Power Apps mobile
app.

Default Tab

Set the number of rows
shown per page in any
list of rows

Select the default tab that you want to see for the selected default
pane. For example, select the Accounts tab for the Service pane.

Options

Description

Rows Per Page

Select the maximum number of rows you want to see in a list on a
page. You can set a value from 25 to 250. A smaller number of rows
per page is recommended, as it will help maximize grid performance.
Selecting a larger number of rows per page can negatively impact grid
performance.

Select the default mode
in Advanced Find
Advanced Find Mode

By default, every time you open the Advanced Find Mode dialog box,
the query details are hidden. To see the query details every time, select
Detailed.

Select the default
search experience
Default Search

Select your default search experience. For more information, see

Experience

Compare search options

Set the time zone you
are in
Time Zone

Select the time zone that you want to display for your region.

Select a default
currency
Currency

Choose the default currency value to use in financial transactions.
Select the Lookup button to search for a currency.

Support high-contrast
settings
Enable high contrast

Select this check box to enable high-contrast levels in your app
display. Tip: Set this option if you are using high contrast settings in
your browser or operating system.

Set the default
country/region code
Enable country/region

Select this check box to enable the default calling code for your

code prefixing

region.

Country/Region Code

Enter the value of your region’s calling code in the text box. For

Prefix

example, enter +1 for the United States.

View your user

Select this link to view details about you. These details are displayed to

information

your entire organization and include your contact information and
security role. For more information, View your user profile.

Synchronization tab options
ﾉ

Options

Expand table

Description

Synchronize Dynamics 365 items
with Outlook or Exchange
filters

Choose the rows to synchronize between Dynamics 365
and Dynamics 365 for Outlook or Exchange (using
server-side synchronization).

synchronized columns

View the columns that are synchronized between
Dynamics 365 and Dynamics 365 for Outlook so you can
see where the data is coming from.

Manage your offline filters and take
your information offline in Dynamics
365 for Outlook
offline filters

Choose a subset of Dynamics 365 data that you want to
work with when you go offline with Dynamics 365 for
Outlook.

Activities tab options
ﾉ

Options

Expand table

Description

Default view
Default Calendar

Select the default view for your calendar.

Start your default work hours

Select your default start and end time for your work hours.

Formats tab options
ﾉ

Options
Current
Formats

Description

Expand table

Options

Description

Customize

Choose this option to add a new region and formats.

Format preview

Shows the current region and its formats for Number, Currency, Time, and
Date.

Email Templates tab options
ﾉ

Options

Expand table

Description

Create and modify
personal email
templates
New

Create an email template with custom values (such as a date or
signature), so you don’t have to enter the same information,
repeatedly, when you send an email.
On the command bar, select New and enter values for the template.

Email Signatures tab options
ﾉ

Options

Expand table

Description

Create and modify
personal email signatures
New

Create an email signature to save time and be consistent in your
responses. The owner of an email signature can be a user or a team.
On the command bar, select New and enter values for the signature.

Email tab options
ﾉ

Expand table

Options

Description

Select if other users
can send emails for you
Allow other users to
send email on your
behalf.

Select this option to allow other users of Dynamics 365 to send email
on your behalf. Caution: If you select this option, other users can send
email on your behalf with or without your consent. Your email name
will appear as the sender.

Select the email
messages to track in
Dynamics 365
Track

Select the email messages that you want to automatically track in
Dynamics 365.
Options:
- All Email messages
- Email messages in response to Dynamics 365 email
- Email messages from Dynamics 365 Leads, Contacts and Accounts
- Email messages from Dynamics 365 rows that are email enabled

Configure Folder
Tracking Rules

Set up folders to automatically track incoming email.

Automatically create
rows in Dynamics 365
Create

Select this option to allow Dynamics 365 to create leads or contacts
automatically from the information in tracked email messages.

Show emails as
conversation on

Select this to list emails in a conversation thread, the way many email
applications work when viewing emails in a conversation.

Timeline
View your Mailbox

Select this link to see your mailbox details.

Privacy tab options
７ Note
This tab isn’t available if your system administrator has selected the privacy
preference for the entire organization in System Settings. Talk to your administrator.

ﾉ

Options

Expand table

Description

Select your error notification
preference
Options:

Specify what you want Dynamics 365 to do when an error

- Ask me for permission to send
an error report to Microsoft.
- Automatically send report to
Microsoft without asking me for
permission.
- Never send an error report to
Microsoft about Dynamics 365.

occurs. Based on your selection, the error reports are shared
with and used by Microsoft for product improvements.
We recommend that you send the error reports to Microsoft so
that Microsoft can use the information for product
improvements.

Languages tab options
ﾉ

Options

Expand table

Description

Select the language you
prefer to see Dynamics
365 displayed in
Base Language

Shows the base language. The base language is set during the
Dynamics 365 installation process. You can’t edit this option.

User Interface Language

Select the language that you want to see for labels and dialog
boxes in the Dynamics 365 user interface.

Help Language

Select the language for Help. To add an additional language other
than the base language, your admin must install the required
language packs and enable them. Talk to your administrator.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use a screen reader
Article • 02/15/2022

Screen readers make model-driven apps accessible to people who have low or no vision
or might need extra support for a temporary scenario, such as eye fatigue. Commonly
used screen readers such as Narrator, JAWS, and NVDA are supported.
Learn more about working with Microsoft Narrator
Learn more about working with JAWS
Learn more about working with NVDA

Basic tasks using a screen reader
Open an app
1. On the navigation bar, use the Tab key to move to the app drop-down control and
press Enter to open the site map.
2. Press the Tab key until you hear the name of the application you want to open—
for example, “Sales.” Press Enter to open the app.

Use scan mode in Narrator
You can use scan mode to quickly navigate apps using the arrow keys and common
keyboard shortcuts. Quickly jump to headings, links, landmarks, form columns, controls,
and tables in this mode. Turn scan mode on and off by pressing Caps lock+Spacebar.
More information: Using scan mode

Find your way around the app
Navigation bar
When you open an app, a vertical bar with subarea icons is displayed on the left. You
can either use the Tab key to move through these icons until you hear the name of the
subarea you want, such as “Accounts,” or you can use the site map control. For example,
press the Tab key until you hear “Accounts” and then press Enter to open the Accounts
view.

Grids
Screen readers navigate grids more reliably and consistently, and announce row and
column headings, as well as the position within the grid. When you first open a grid, the
default tab stop is the view selector.
Whenever you enter a cell within the grid from outside of the grid, Narrator announces
the name of the table, the row and column counts, and the position of your cursor
within the table.
If your cursor is within the table header, quickly navigate between headers by using the
Tab key or Shift+Tab. Narrator will announce the name of each header as you enter the
header cell. It also announces the type of cell (for example, “column header”), the
location of the column (for example, “column 1 of 6”), and whether the column is sorted
or selected. If you press Enter in a table header, it will sort the table by that column.
Narrator announces the sort order, and you can press Enter again to change the order.
When you move out of the last column in the table, the cursor moves to the second row
of the grid, and from this point, you must use the Up and Down arrow keys to navigate
between the non-header cells. If you instead press the Tab key again, your cursor will
move to the next interactive element, typically the table filter list. When moving
between non-header row cells, Narrator announces the column name, the location of
the column, and text within the cell.

Forms
Multiple navigation modes are available for navigating a form using Narrator, with the
most common modes being landmarks, headings, and form columns. To change the
navigation mode, press Caps lock+Up arrow. Hold the Caps lock key down while
pressing the Up arrow key to cycle through the modes until you hear the mode you
want to use. Then use Caps lock + the Left/Right arrow keys to navigate through the
various items. For example, if you want to go to the Last Name column in the Contact
Information section of a contact, do the following:
1. Press and hold the Caps lock key and press the Up arrow key until you hear
“Landmarks.”
2. Press and hold the Caps lock key and press the Right arrow key until you hear
“Contact information.”
3. Change the mode by pressing and holding the Caps lock key and pressing the Up
arrow key until you hear “Form Columns.”
4. Navigate to the Last Name column by using Caps lock + the Left/Right arrow keys
until you hear “Last Name.” Narrator also announces the control type, value, state,

and any special instructions for the column.
You can also use the Tab key to quickly navigate to interactive elements on the form.
Some form columns have an icon that will perform the default action when you press
Ctrl+Enter. For example, an email form column might have an envelope icon that opens
an email editor.

Dashboards/charts
You can navigate through the dashboard charts using the Tab key and Caps lock + arrow
keys. Press the Tab key to quickly go to the interactive elements and use Caps lock + an
arrow key for navigation of non-interactive elements, such as headings, landmarks, and
items.
７ Note
You must have the latest Windows 10

Update installed to have all of the

accessibility features available for charts.

Interactive dashboard streams
You can use the Tab key or Shift+Tab keys to move between interactive dashboard
streams, such as found in the Accounts dashboard, or just change the navigation mode
until you hear “Headings” and then use the Tab key to quickly move between dashboard
streams.
To navigate through each element of a dashboard stream, use the Up/Down arrow keys.
Narrator will read the type of control and the title of the control.

Business process flows
You can navigate a business process flow, such as the one found at the top of the Lead
form, by pressing the Tab key to move forward, and Shift+Tab to move backward
between the tables. Use the Enter key on the Move to the Left or Move to the Right
buttons to display additional tables in the process flow. Narrator reads the table type,
stage, status, title, element number out of total elements, and whether it is currently
selected.

Dialog boxes

When a dialog box opens, Narrator announces the title. For dialog boxes with input
columns, the Close button has the default focus, allowing you to close the dialog box by
pressing Enter. For dialog boxes that require user action, the focus is on the primary
action button, such as Delete or OK.
You can navigate through the controls by using the Tab key. The cursor will loop
through each element in the dialog box, and you can press Esc to close it.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use keyboard shortcuts in Power Apps
Keyboard shortcuts give you an alternate way to do common tasks instead of using your mouse
or tapping with your finger. They help in seamless navigation of the interface. The following
keyboard shortcuts apply across apps.
７ Note
The keyboard shortcuts described here refer to the United States keyboard layout. Keys on
other keyboard layouts might not correspond exactly to the keys on a US keyboard.

Global shortcuts
ﾉ

Expand table

Type

Shortcut
key

Description

General

F2

Activates the flyouts including toast notifcations.

Landmark

Ctrl+F6

Navigates you through the landmarks of a page in clockwise order. Remembers
the last selected item in each landmark and will navigate to that last item.

Landmark

Ctrl+Shift+F6

Navigates you through the landmarks of a page in counter clockwise order.
Remembers the last selected item in each landmark and will navigate to that
last item.

Form shortcuts
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

Complete the command for the active option or button

Enter

Cancel a command, or close a selected list or dialog box

Esc

Save

Ctrl+S

Save and Close

N/A

Cancel edits and close (Close)

Esc

Task

Unified Interface

Delete the row (when forms are in edit mode)

N/A

Save and then open a new form (Save and New) (when forms are in edit mode)

N/A

Open the lookup menu with the most recently used items in alphabetical order

Down arrow

Open a lookup drop-down list

Enter

Close a lookup drop-down list

Esc

Open a row found in lookup with forms in edit mode

Enter

View more information when focus is on a lookup row item with a chevron

Right arrow (→) key

Close the more information when focus is on a lookup item with a chevron

Left (←) arrow key

Add an article to an email

N/A

Apply an email template (when editing an email message)

N/A

Form navigation shortcuts
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

Move to the next option, option group, or column

Tab

Move to the previous option, option group, or column

Shift+Tab

Move between options in an open list, or between options in a group of options

Arrow keys

Go to the Command Bar

N/A

Go to the landmark section of a page

Ctrl+HOME

Email
The following table outlines a list of accessibility shortcuts available when using email. You can
access this list while composing email by pressing Alt+0.
ﾉ

Expand table

Type

Shortcut

Description

key
Tab

Alt+Ctrl+0

Go to the editor toolbar.

Alt+1

Go to the rich-text editor.

Alt+2

Go to the HTML editor.

Alt+3

Go to the preview view.

Alt+F10

Navigate to the editor toolbar. Move to the next and previous toolbar group

navigation
Tab
navigation
Tab
navigation
Tab
navigation
General
editor
commands

with Tab and Shift+Tab. Move to the next and previous toolbar button with
Right Arrow or Left Arrow. Press Space or Enter to activate the toolbar
button.

General

Alt+-

Expand/collapse the toolbar.

General

See

Editor dialog: Inside a dialog, press Tab to navigate to the next dialog

editor
commands

description.

element, press Shift+Tab to move to the previous dialog element, press Enter
to submit the dialog, press ESC to cancel the dialog. When a dialog has

editor
commands

multiple tabs, the tab list can be reached either with Alt+F10 or with Tab,
following the dialog tabbing order. With a tab list focused, move to the next
and previous tab with Right and Left Arrow, respectively.
General
editor
commands

See
description.

Editor list box: Inside a list box, move to next list item with Tab or Down
Arrow. Move to previous list item with Shift+Tab or Up Arrow. Press Space or
Enter to select the list option. Press ESC to close the list box.

Base
commands

Ctrl+Z

Undo command.

Base
commands

Shift+Ctrl+Z

Redo command.

Base
commands

Ctrl+B

Bold command.

Base
commands

Ctrl+I

Italic command.

Base
commands

Ctrl+U

Underline command.

Base

Alt+0

Accessibility help.

Type

Shortcut
key

Description

Esc

Cancel operation.

commands
Base
commands

Editable grids (views)
If your administrator has enabled editable grids (views), you can edit data directly in a grid (view).
The following table lists the keyboard shortcuts:
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

When the focus is on a column header,
sort by column

Spacebar to drop down list and then down arrow to select an
action, followed by Enter

When the focus is on a column header,

Spacebar to drop down list and then down arrow to select the

open filter dialog

Filter by option, followed by Enter

When the focus is on the cells, move to
the next column

Right arrow (→) key

When the focus is on the cells, move to

Left arrow (←) key

the previous column
When the focus is on the column header,
move to the next column header

Tab

When the focus is on the column header,

Shift+Tab

move to the previous column header
Move to the cell above

Up arrow (↑) key

Move to the cell below

Down arrow (↓) key Or Enter, when cell is not in edit mode

Go to edit mode for Text, Number, and
Simple columns when the focus is on a

Type the value directly to overwrite the existing value Or
Spacebar to continue modifying the existing value Or F2 to

column

select the existing value

Go to edit mode for Date and Time
columns

Type the value directly Or F4 or Alt+↓ to display the date/time
picker

Go to edit mode for drop-down (Lookup,

Spacebar to open the list

Option Set) columns

Task

Unified Interface

Go to edit mode for Two Options
columns

Spacebar to switch between the two options Or F4 Or Alt+↓ to
open the list

Move between entries in an open dropdown list

Up/Down (↑/↓) Arrow keys

Select an option in an open drop-down
list

Enter

Close an open drop-down list

Esc

Cancel your edits

Esc

Navigate to and open the lookup row

Enter when the focus is on (→) icon

Move to the next page (if any)

Page down key

Move to the previous page (if any)

Page up key

Move to the column header when the

Shift+Tab

focus is in the grid
Move to the Save button when the focus
is on the column header (if any unsaved

Tab

data)
Move to the Refresh button when the
focus is on the column header

Tab

Interactive dashboard shortcuts
Interactive dashboards enable new functionality, such as filtering, sorting, and quick actions.
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

Activate a dashboard element (simulate left-click)

Enter Or Spacebar

Move to the next element

Tab

Move to the previous element

Shift+Tab

Move to the next item within a dashboard element

Down (↓) arrow key

Move to the previous item within a dashboard element

Up (↑) arrow key

Close a menu

Escape

Task

Unified Interface

Select a check box or radio button

Spacebar

Move to the global command bar

Ctrl+Alt+A

Global filter shortcuts
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

Open a menu

Enter Or Spacebar Or Down (↓) arrow key

Activate a button

Enter Or Spacebar

Move to the next element

Tab

Move to the previous element

Shift+Tab

Open a tree view control

Right (→) arrow key

Close a tree view control

Left (←) arrow key

Move to the next tree view node

Up (↑) arrow key

Move to the previous tree view node

Down (↓) arrow key

Move to the first tree view node

Home

Move to the last tree view node

End

Perform the default action for the tree view node

Enter

Remove a filter

Delete

Dashboard stream control shortcuts
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

Move to the next element

Tab

Move to the previous element

Shift+Tab

Activate a button

Enter Or Spacebar

Activate the Sort by column button and open flyout

Enter Or Spacebar Or Down (↓) arrow key

Task

Unified Interface

Move to the next item

Down (↓) arrow key

Move to the previous item

Up (↑) arrow key

Move to the first item

Home

Move to the last item

End

Move to the next stream

Ctrl+F6

Move to the previous stream

Ctrl+Shift+F6

Close a menu

Escape

Change the state of a check box

Spacebar

Common controls
Chart shortcuts
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

Move to the first element in a chart

Tab

Move to the next data point

Right (→) arrow key OR Down (↓)
arrow key

Move to the previous data point

Left (←) arrow key OR Up (↑) arrow
key

Move to the See More button in a Tag chart

Tab

Move back from the See More button to the tags in a Tag chart

Shift+Tab

Filter the dashboard when the focus is on a data point in an
interactive dashboard

Enter Or Spacebar

Date-Time control shortcuts
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

Open the date picker flyout

Enter Or Spacebar Or Down (↓) arrow key

Task

Unified Interface

Activate the option and close the flyout

Enter Or Spacebar

Move to the next item

Down (↓) arrow key

Move to the previous item

Up (↑) arrow key

Move to the first item

Home

Move to the last item

End

Close the date picker flyout

Escape

Move to the next element

Tab

Move to the previous element

Shift+Tab

Select the calendar

Enter Or Spacebar

Activate a button

Enter Or Spacebar

Search results shortcuts
ﾉ

Expand table

Task

Unified Interface

Move to the next search result

Up (↑) arrow key

Move to the previous search result

Down (↓) arrow key

Move to the list of available views

Right (→) arrow key

Move from the list of available views to search results

Left (←) arrow key

Navigate between buttons

Tab

Navigating submenus
If you use a screen reader, follow these steps to access any of the submenus that are displayed
when you hover the mouse over a navigation link.
1. Navigate between the menu options using standard link navigation.
2. Activate the link by selecting Enter or the space key as you usually would. A list of
submenus will be displayed.
3. To access these submenu options, use the assistive technology (AT) shortcut key to navigate
to the next button. For example, if you use the NVDA screen reader, you would use the "b"

shortcut key (NVDA+b). To navigate through all the options, select the key repeatedly.
） Important
Several areas in the user interface (UI) have auto-collapse built in for menus. This includes
the Navigation Bar and Form Navigation. Both expand when selected, but after 30 seconds
of inactivity, the items collapse.

Navigating through stages of a process
If you're in a row—for example, a lead—this section shows you the keyboard shortcuts to
navigate through the different stages in the sales process to qualify the lead, and how to make
selections in those stages. For example, if you want to move easily from the Qualify stage
through to the Close stage, try these keyboard actions:
After you select a stage, get to the columns by selecting the Down (↓) arrow.
If a stage is collapsed, select Enter to expand it.
７ Note
The process name is an icon at the bottom of the page, not the top.
Keyboard shortcuts in Windows: If you are using the Windows operating system, select the
following link and choose the version number from the drop-down list. You can view all the
shortcuts that are applicable to a Windows environment. See Windows keyboard
shortcuts .
Keyboard shortcuts in Mac: If you are using a Mac operating system, select the following
link to view all the shortcuts that are applicable to a Mac environment. See Mac keyboard
shortcuts .

Last updated on 05/01/2026

About dialog for model-driven apps
Article • 11/07/2023

This article explains the various parts of the About dialog for model-driven apps.

The Channel attribute indicates the feature set being used. This attribute can be
set by environment, app, user, or URL parameter so that a suffix indicates the
release name of the current session. More information: Changing release channels
The semi-annual channel is the current, twice-a-year release wave that is updated
in April and October. The release for the semi-annual channel is shown at the top
of the dialog like 2023 release wave 1 enabled.
The monthly channel is the new, release cadence that happens once per month.
The release for the monthly channel is shown after Channel: Monthly as a month
and year. For example, in the screenshot provided, the monthly channel is May
2023.

See also
Release Channels for your model driven app
Changing release channels for model-driven apps

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Create a new row
Article • 01/31/2024

The New command or Quick create makes it fast and easy to enter almost any type of
information into the system. The command is on the navigation bar, so it’s available
whenever you need to enter new information into the system. You can also save a row
and create a new one directly from the Quick create form.
７ Note
The Quick create option is only available for rows that are enabled by your admin.
1. On the navigation bar, select the plus sign

, and then select the item you want.

2. Fill in the columns, and then select Save and Close. Or, to save and create another
row, select the down arrow and then select Save & Create New.

７ Note
An asterisk

next to the column on the screen means the column is required. If

you select Save and Close before entering required columns an error message will
be displayed or if you have entered information and select Cancel a warning will be
displayed.
A plus sign

next to the column on the screen means your organization

recommends that you fill in the column.
A lock sign

next to the column on the screen means this field is read-only and

cannot be edited.

Create a new row using the New button
1. From the left navigation pane, select a table type.

2. On the command bar, select +New.

3. Fill in the columns and then on the command bar, select Save or Save & Close. The
Save option is still available on the bottom right corner.

７ Note

If you have unsaved changes and try to go to another row, a Unsaved
changes dialog box will pop-up. If you select Save and continue, it will
attempt to save your information and open the page you wanted to go to. If
you choose to save and continue and there is an error on a column, the dialog
will close and you will remain on the page to fix the error before you can
navigate away.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Edit multiple rows (Bulk edit)
Article • 02/15/2022

[This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
You can edit multiple rows in model-driven apps and quickly update several columns of
data across multiple rows in a single action. This is useful in scenarios when you need to
update the same column for multiple rows.
７ Note
Your administrator must grant you the Bulk Edit miscellaneous privilege to edit
multiple rows.
Columns such as timeline wall, quick view forms, reference panel, and etc. aren't
available when you're editing multiple rows.
1. To edit multiple rows, go to view page with the list of rows and select two or more
rows.
2. On the command bar, select Edit.

The Edit (number of rows) records dialog opens with your last used form for the table.

Legend
1. Shows the number of rows that you're editing.
2. Shows the form title.
3. Select the chevron icon to switch from the default form to another form.
4. Select a tab to edit the columns on the form. The header column is always listed on
the last tab.
5. If you changed the data for a required column, it needs to contain data otherwise
you won't be able to save your changes.
6. Shows the form details that can be edited.
7. Save or cancel your changes. Saved changes are saved for all selected rows.

７ Note
You can't edit multiple rows with Power Apps mobile.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Work with rows in the calendar view
Article • 01/24/2024

The calendar view displays scheduled activities and their associated details. You can
view, create, and delete your activities in a day, week, or month view. For the new
calendar view to be visible, the Calendar control must be added to a table view by a
system customizer or a system administrator. For more information, see Add the
calendar control to tables. The Calendar control can be added to any table.
By default, rows are displayed in a read-only grid.

When the Calendar control is added to a table, the default view is changed to the
calendar view. Rows associated with the table are displayed in an interactive calendar.

７ Note
The Calendar control is not supported in mobile offline. For more information
about mobile offline, see Work offline on your mobile device.

Switch between calendar view and grid view
When the calendar view is turned on, it's the default view for the table. However, you
can still switch between the grid view or the calendar view.
1. To switch between views, on the left navigation pane, select the table that has the
calendar view turned on.

2. On the command bar, select the More commands icon, and then select Show As
and choose either Calendar or Read Only Grid.

When you select the Calendar view, activities are displayed in a calendar view.

View the calendar by Day, Week, or Month
You can choose from these calendar views:
Day: View the current day.
Week: View the week from Sunday through Saturday, by default. You can change
the first day of the week in system settings.
To view the week numbers, ask your admin to enable displaying the week numbers
in the calendar view for your environment. Follow the steps in Customize regional
options and select Show week numbers on Calendar views.
Month: View the entire month.
To change the calendar format, on the calendar select the drop-down menu and then
select Day, Week, or Month.

If you want to set a calendar view as the default view, use personalization settings. For
more information, see Set personal options.

View details of a calendar item and take action
You can view a summary of a row by selecting it in the calendar. A pop-up window
opens and displays the summary information.
To view complete details about the row, select More Details in the pop-up
window.
To delete the row, select Delete in the pop-up window.

７ Note
This view is not customizable. If you would like to customize this view, add your
suggestion here

.

Create a new row from the calendar
The calendar view allows you to easily create a new row.
1. Depending on your calendar view, create a new row:
On the Month view, double-click a date tile, in which you want to create a
new row.

On the Day or Week view, select a date and time in which you want to create
a row.

You can also create a new row by selecting and dragging across time slots in
Day or Week view.

2. A new form opens. In this example, a New Reservation form is opened. Enter the
details, and then select Save or Save & Close.

７ Note
If your form has start and end times columns, they are filled-in
automatically as per the selected date tile or time slots. By default, the

duration is set to 30 minutes.
When you add the new calendar control on a table other than Activity,
the corresponding table row is created when you create a row from the
calendar.

Search through rows
You can use the search box to search for data in the view you're in. For example, when
you enter the keyword laptop, it refreshes the calendar view to show only the rows
where the title begins with laptop. For more information, see Explore data in a view on a
grid page.

See also
Add the calendar control to tables

Feedback

Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use the lookup column on a row
Article • 04/10/2023

Lookup helps you to choose rows from a related table. When you select a related table
and enter search criteria, such as a name or email address, lookup automatically begins
to resolve the partial text and displays any matching rows. If no rows are displayed after
you have typed the full text of your search criteria, a message is displayed specifying
that there are no rows.
For example, you might search for the name Adrian Dumitrascu. When you type ad,
possible matching rows are automatically populated and displayed.

７ Note
An administrator can define the criteria that lookup uses for resolving partial
search text.
To enable search on multiple columns, see Configure searchable fields.
Also, you can create a new row by selecting the New button. You must have sufficient
permissions to view the New button and create a row. When you select the lookup
column, the five most recently used rows are displayed along with five favorite rows.
Which rows are displayed depends on your view history and the favorites you’ve pinned.
For example, if there's only three rows in your history, then the lookup will display those
three rows, along with seven of your favorite rows. If you haven't pinned any rows to
favorites, then the most recently viewed rows will be displayed.

Legend
1. Look for records: Select the textbox and type your search criteria to look for rows.
2. Recent: Rows that were recently searched.
3. New Record: Create a new row.
4. Types of records: Select to filter by a table type such as Contact table or Account
table. The number in front of type of records represents how many table are
available to filter from.
5. Browse in a lookup column: To browse a lookup, select the lookup icon
(magnifying glass). A full list of items will be shown in the dropdown.
6. Expand item: Use the Right and Left arrow keys on your keyboard to expand
collapse each item. For more information on keyboard shortcuts, see Use keyboard
shortcuts in Power Apps.
7. Change View: Select to switch to another view. For more information on views, see
Explore data in a view on a grid page.

Types of lookups
Lookups are classified into the following:
Simple lookup: Select a single row from a single table.
PartyList-type lookup: Use to select multiple rows from multiple tables in a
lookup. Use partylist-type columns to select multiple rows. This allows you to add
each row by performing a new search, multiple times. Every time you select a row,
you will be able to perform a new search for another row. Note, you can't
customize the system and disable views for PartyList-type look.
Regarding-type lookup: Use to select a single row from multiple tables in a
lookup. Activities must be enabled for a table to use the Regarding lookup. For

more information: Enable activities for a table

Search in a lookup column
To search a lookup, select the textbox and type your search criteria. If recent rows are
enabled for your lookup, your recent rows will be displayed when you select the textbox.

７ Note
The default search result for lookup search is, begins with. This means results
include rows that begin with a specific word. For example, if you want to search for
Alpine Ski House, type alp in the search box; if you type ski, the row will not show
up in the search result.
For a wildcard search use asterisks: For example, type *ski or *ski*.

Browse in a lookup column
To browse a lookup, select the lookup icon (magnifying glass). A full list of items will be
shown in the dropdown.

Most recently used row type images
The most recently used list of rows shows an image to help distinguish between row
types.
７ Note
Recent rows are not filtered by search term, selected view or related rows.

Row type selection list
When results span multiple row types, you can see how many types of rows there are
and select them from the list. The Lookup Row option is not available in Unified
Interface. Instead, use the following to search:
To look for rows, enter text in the search box.
To search by table type select types of rows.
Select Change View to select a view.

Create a new row if you don’t find an existing
row
If you do not find a row, select New in the lookup area to create a new row. When the
row is created it will show up in the lookup.

Replace the selected lookup item
You can replace an existing row while using simple and regarding-type lookups. Search
for a row and then select the row to replace it with a new row.

Change a view in a lookup column
Selecting Change View lets you determine:
How you want to view rows such as Contacts Being Followed, Contacts Lookup
View, or Active Contacts.
What you want to view in the rows, such as name, email, or telephone number. For
example, if you want to view only the contacts that you follow, select Change View
> Contacts being followed. Only the contacts that you are following will be
displayed, as illustrated here.

Filter by, Only my rows or Filter by related primary
contact
To apply extra filters, in the Change View menu, select Only my rows or Filter by related
Primary Contact.

Choose from multiple rows
When lookup has more rows in a column than can fit in the available display area, the
display area is collapsed—that is, the rows that do fit the display area are shown next to
the number of rows that are not shown. To view all rows, select the number. The
following images show the difference between collapsed and non-collapsed columns.
Collapsed:

Non-collapsed:

Advanced lookup
The Advanced lookup feature is available for early access in 2021 release wave 2. To use
Advanced lookup your administrator needs to enable early access. For more
information, see Manage behavior settings.
Once enabled Advanced lookup is available on any lookup column that's on a quick
create form, edit form, or dialog box. With Advanced lookup you can easily sort rows
and switch between tables or views in a lookup column.
Advanced lookup supports customizations on lookup control through Client APIs such
as addCustomView, addCustomFilter, addPreSearch and removePreSearch.
1. To use Advanced lookup, select the lookup icon (magnifying glass) on any lookup
column and then select Advanced lookup.

2. The Advanced lookup gird opens with a list of rows.

Legend

1. Search: Enter search text to find the row that you're looking for. When you
changes views the search text is retained.
2. Change views: Select to change views.
3. Select row: Select the radio button to choose a row for the lookup and then select
Done. The selected row will appear at the bottom under Selected record.
4. Open row: Select to open the row and make edits and then save your changes.
Any saved changes are reflected in the advanced lookup grid.
5. Sort: Select the arrow at the top of any column to sort in ascending or descending
order.
6. Only my records: Select to only show rows that you own.
7. Add new record: Opens the quick create form where you can add a new row for
the table. When you save the new row, the advanced lookup grid will refresh and
show the newly added row.
２ Warning
Advanced lookup isn't available with offline scenarios. The Advanced lookup
button is replaced by a Change view button when the user is offline.

Regarding advanced lookup
In a Regarding lookup, you can switch between tables and their views
1. In a Regarding lookup column, select the lookup icon (magnifying glass) then
select Advanced lookup.

2. On the advanced lookup grid, select a table from the list to see rows for the
selected table. You can also select the current view to change views.

Party list advanced lookup
For lookup columns that is a party list, you can select multiple rows from different tables
such as the Call To field on a phone call activity.
1. Go to a lookup column with party list and select the lookup icon (magnifying glass)
then select Advanced lookup.
2. On the advanced lookup grid, select from multiple rows from different tables.

3. Select the (number of rows) selected tab or the link at the bottom to review and
edit your choices and then select Done.

4. The selected rows appear in the lookup.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

View the profile card for a contact or user
When you select someone's name or picture in Outlook or other Office apps, you can find
information related to them on their profile card. The profile card is also sometimes referred to
as contact card or people card. In model-driven Power Apps, profile cards can be seen on
contact and user rows. You can only view them when they are in a lookup.
For more information about profile cards, see Profile cards in Office 365 .
７ Note
Profile cards are available on contacts and users in any Unified Interface app. For
information, see Enable viewing profile cards (for admins).
The profile card in Microsoft Dataverse is not displayed if multi-factor authentication
is turned on for Office Delve service in Azure Active Directory.
Profile cards are not available when the signed-in user is a Microsoft Entra ID guest
user.

View a contact's profile
1. Open a row and go to a lookup column that has a contact or owner name.
2. Hover over the name to view the profile card.

FAQs
Where can I see profile cards in Dynamics 365?
Profile cards can be seen on contact and user rows. You can only view them when they are in a
lookup.

Where is information shown in the profile card coming from?
The information shown on the contact profile card is fetched from Dataverse (and not
Microsoft Exchange).
The information shown on the user profile card is fetched from Office 365 (Azure Active
Directory). For more information, see Profile cards in Office 365 (admin section) .

How can I customize the columns shown on the profile card?
Currently, the list of columns displayed on the profile card is not open for customization.

Why is the Start chat option on the profile card disabled
(greyed out)?

The Start chat and the Send Email options on the profile card will open your default instant
message and email apps. The Start chat option is enabled if the person you are trying to
contact is in the same Azure Active Directory environment as you or is a federated contact.

Why isn't the profile card opening for a user?
If profile cards are not appearing when hovering over any user's name, the signed-in user
might be a Microsoft Entra ID guest user. Profile cards aren't supported for signed-in guest
users.

Last updated on 04/02/2026

Assign or share a row
When you create a row, you're the owner of the row. If you want another person in your
organization to take ownership of the row, assign the row to that person. You can assign a row to
a user or team. You can also assign a row to yourself when another user owns it, but you need
system administrator privilege to do this.
If you want to keep ownership of the row but let someone else work on it with you, then use the
Share option to share the row. For more information, see Share a row.
For more information on how privileges and access works, see How access to a row is
determined.

Assign a row to a user or team
1. From a list of rows, select the row that you want to assign to someone else. You can select
multiple rows.

2. On the command bar, select Assign.

3. In the assign dialog box, select the Assign to column, and choose one of the following
options:
Select Me to assign the row to yourself and then select Assign. Remember only a
system administrator can assign a row that belongs to someone else to themselves.

Select User or Team and then enter the name of the user or team or use the lookup to
find them. Or, select + New to create a new user or team row. When you're done
select Assign.

Use advanced find to reassign rows
Use advanced find to search for rows and then reassign them to someone else. For more
information on advanced find, see Create, edit, or save an Advanced Find search.

1. On the command bar, select Advanced Find.

2. Use the advanced find search to find rows that you want to assign to someone else. For
example, to look for active row types that are Challenges, in Look for: enter Challenges and
status equals Active. Then select Apply to run the query.
3. Select the rows that you want to assign and then select Assign.
4. In the assign dialog box, select the Assign to column and choose one of the following
options:
Select Me to assign the row to yourself and then select Assign. Remember only a
system administrator can assign a row that belongs to someone else to themself.
Select User or Team and then enter the name of the user or team or use the lookup to
find them. Or, select New Row to create a new user or team row. When you're done
select Assign.

Reassign all rows (for admins)
When a user leaves your organization or when ownership needs to change from one user to
another, an administrator can reassign the rows.
1. Go to Settings > Advanced Settings.

2. In the navigation pane, select Security (Preview).
3. Under Security (Preview), select Users.
4. The users list open in Power Platform admin center. From the list of users, select a user
name to open the user's profile.
5. Under Manager, select Reassign record.
6. On the Reassign Rows dialog box, choose how you want to reassign all the rows and then
select Reassign.

７ Note
The Reassign Rows option reassigns all rows regardless of their status. Inactive and
active rows are reassigned to the other user or team. This action deactivates all
activated processes, including business rules and workflows, when the row is

reassigned to another user or team. The new owner must activate the processes that
were deactivated when the row is reassigned.
When you reassign a large number of rows, the system might take a while to process.
If an issue occurs during the reassignment process, such as the user that the rows are
being reassigned to doesn't have the required privileges, the Reassign Rows process
stops. The rows that are processed before the issue are updated and saved. For the
rows that aren't saved, you need to reassign the rows again by using the Reassign
Rows option.

Share a row with someone else
If you want to keep ownership of a row but let someone else work on the row with you, use the
share option.
７ Note
For users on early access, the sharing feature is updated for 2021 release wave 2. For more
information, see Share a row with someone else.
1. From a list of rows, select the row that you want to share with someone else. You can select
multiple rows.

2. On the command bar, select Share.

3. On the share dialog box, select search icon.
4. On the dialog box, choose User or Team.

5. Select the name from the list.
6. On the share dialog box, select the type of permissions the user or team has for the row.
When you're done, select Share.

Remove someone from a shared row
When you're the assigned owner of a row, you can remove another user from the shared row.
1. From a list of rows that you own, select the row that you want to remove someone from the
shared row.
2. On the command bar, select Share.
3. On the share dialog box, select the user or team who you want to remove sharing from.
4. Select the Share button.

Last updated on 06/02/2026

Share rows with a user or team
Article • 02/15/2022

Keep ownership of a row and use the share feature to share the row with another user
or team.
７ Note
This feature isn't supported on Power Apps mobile or when you're using the
app in offline mode with no internet connection.
Any user that you share a row with needs to have basic level access that is
granted by a system administrator. If you cannot select permissions such as
read or write then contact your system administrator and check if the user or
team has the required access.

Share rows
1. Share a row from a view page or when you open a row.
Share from the view page: Select one or more rows on a view page and then
select Share on the command bar.

Open a row and share: Open a row and then select Share on the command
bar. If you don't see the share option, then select the More commands
ellipsis and then select Share.

2. On the share dialog box, do one of the following:
First time sharing a row
a. Select the lookup column under Add user/team. Enter the name of the
user or team in the lookup column. The lookup will start displaying users
or teams based on what you typed, or you can select the lookup icon
(magnifying glass) and an alphabetical list of names appears that you can
select to assign access. You can also search for a user that previously had
share rights to manage or change access privileges.

b. Select a user or team one at a time, and then grant them the appropriate
permissions to the row.
If check boxes are disabled it means a user or team does not have basic
privileges to the row. For more information on user access, see Check your
user access to a row.

Previously shared access to a row
a. Under Previously shared access select a user or team one at a time and
then grant them the appropriate permissions to the row.
If check boxes are disabled it means a user or team does not have basic
privileges to the row. For more information on user access, see Check your
user access to a row.

3. Select Share to save your changes.

７ Note
If you add additional users or teams after saving share access and the check box is
disabled but has a value, this means that your administrator has changed the basic
privileges for the user, and they no longer have basic access rights, however, the
share permissions is retained and isn't reset when the administrator changes the
base privileges. Contact your system administrator to update a user’s access if you
want to change or update the disabled options for sharing a row.

Issues and errors

1. If you're disconnected from the internet when sharing a row, then you won't be
able to set or update options for users or teams. Sharing won't be available.

2. If you get a generic error while sharing, this means that one or more of the rows
can't be shared. The users will be hi-lighted in red. Select Share in the dialog to
attempt another share with those users or close the dialog and retry. This usually
happens if you are sharing lots of rows at once.

3. You may see an error when the system is unable to retrieve the users to assign
share rights or sharing fails due to access related issues.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Share rows using Access Team
Article • 08/09/2023

Access Team grant access to rows via sharing rows. Access Team members have
privileges defined by their individual security roles and by roles from the teams they are
members of.
７ Note
Before you can share rows using Access Team, your admin will need to set-up an
Access Team template. For more information, see About team templates.
1. To give a user permission to access a row, from the site map, select the row type.
For example, Accounts.
2. From the list of rows, open the row that you want to provide another user access
to.

3. In the Access Team Members section, select More Commands (…) > Add User.

4. In the search box, type in the user name to find the user and then select Add.

Remove a user from Access Teams
You can easily remove a user’s access to a row just as easily as you added them.
1. Open the row that you want to remove the user from.
2. Under Access Team Members subgrid, select Remove user.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Check user access to a row
To perform an action on a row, a user needs to have the required privilege assigned through a
security role or the user must be a member of a team that has a security role with assigned
privileges.
To perform actions on a row, the system checks your privileges and if the privilege check
passes, then the system performs an access check. The access check verifies that you have the
required rights to perform actions on a row such as read, write, create, delete, append, append
to, share, and assign.
You can have access rights to perform an action on a row through ownership, role access,
shared access, or hierarchy access.
ﾉ

Expand table

Access type

Description

Ownership

User owns the row or belongs to a team that owns the row.

Role access

User has access to perform an action on a row because of their security role.

Shared access

The row is shared with a user, team, or organization by a user that has appropriate share
rights.

Hierarchy
access

Hierarchy access only takes place if hierarchy security management is turned on for the
organization and the table. The user also needs to be a manager.

For more information on how privileges and access checks work, go to How access to a row is
determined.

Check your access to a row
1. Select a row.
2. Select Check Access on the command bar.

3. The Check Access window displays your access information.

Contact your administrator if you don't have the required access. Only an administrator
can edit your security role and privileges. To find your administrator, go to Find your
administrator or support person.

Check another user's access to a row
If you're an administrator, you can check the access another user has to a row.

1. Select a row.
2. Select Check Access on the command bar.
3. In the User Lookup field, select or enter a user name to search for the user.
4. The Check Access window displays the user's access information.

Check all users who have access to a row
The admin, owner of the record, or users who have access to a row can share the row with
other users for collaboration.
To see who has access to a row and their respective access level, complete the following steps.
７ Note
There are two database settings for each environment that enable the Who has access
feature. System adminstrators can Install the OrganizationSettingsEditor tool and set the
following options to true:
IsAccessCheckerAllUsersEnabled: This allows the admin to see who has access to the
row.
IsAccessCheckerNonAdminAllUsersEnabled: This allows the admin, owner of the
record, and users who have access to the row to see who has access.
1. Select a row.
2. Select Check Access on the command bar.
3. In the Check Access window, select Who has access.
７ Note
The manager list from heirarchy and position security is not shown under Who has
access as this list can be long.
If you select a user who doesn't have access to the record, the page returns with a
blank screen.

Check who has access results
The user's record privileges are displayed. You can tab to each of these privileges to see who
has this privilege on the record.

A user can have access to a record through one or more of these categories.
Direct role - The record access is granted to a security role that is assigned to the user.
Learn more at Role access.
Team role - The record access is granted to a security role that is assigned to the team,
and the user is a member of the team. Learn more at Role access.
Shared - The record access is shared with the user or team who the user is a member of.
Learn more at Shared access.
Application users - Dataverse's application users who have access to the record because
they're assigned to a security role that has privilege to the record.

Last updated on 01/08/2026

Add a connection role to link rows to
each other
Article • 08/09/2023

Connections enable you to easily associate users, contacts, quotes, sales orders, and
many other table rows with each other. The rows in the association can be assigned
particular roles that help define the purpose of the relationship.
It's a quick way to create multiple connections and roles for a particular row. For
example, a contact may have many relationships with other contacts, accounts, or
contracts. In each relationship, a contact may play a different role.
Connection roles are directly associated to a connection. To use a connection role, you
must first add a connection to your row.
Before you can add connection roles, it needs to be enabled by your admin. For more
information see, Configure connection roles.
1. To add or manage connections, select the row you want to manage like an
opportunity.
2. Select the Related tab and then select Connection. This opens the connection grid
with the list of connections for the row.

3. Select Connect and then choose To Another or To Me.

4. On the Name column, enter or find the name of the row for the connection.
5. On the As this Role column, select the lookup icon and then choose New
Connection Role. Or, use the search to find an existing role that you want to
associate to the connection and then select Save.

７ Note
If you have entered information before creating a new connection role, a
warning dialog will be displayed asking if you would like to cancel and
continue working on the connection or to go ahead and leave the current row
you are working on.
6. To create a new connection role, on the New Connection Role screen enter a name
and then choose a Connection Role Category.

7. When you are done, select Save & Close.

Manage Connection Roles
To manage a connection role, select the connection role from a connection table. This
opens the connection role table row. You can edit the name, select a connection role
category, and add a description.

You can also manage the connection role types that you want to associate with the
connection role.
1. Open the connection role and then select Manage Row Type on the command.

2. This opens a list of connection role types that you can add or remove for this
connection role.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Deactivate or activate an account or
contact
Article • 12/10/2024

In a model-driven app, you can deactivate an account or contact rather than deleting it.
This ensures the integrity of the audit trail associated with that row.
A deactivated account or contact becomes inactive, which means it cannot be edited or
used in establishing new relationships with other rows. However, all relationships
created with the deactivated item are still available.
If later you need to reactivate a deactivated account, it's easy to do so.

Deactivate an account or contact
1. From the menu on the left, go to Accounts or Contacts.
2. Select the active account or contact that you want to deactivate, on the command
bar select Deactivate, and then confirm the deactivation.

Activate an account or contact
1. From the menu on the left, go to Accounts or Contacts.

2. Go to the System Views list.
3. Select Inactive Accounts or Inactive Contacts.
4. Select the inactive accounts or contacts you want to activate.
5. Select Activate, and then confirm the activation.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use timeline
Article • 05/29/2025

Timeline is a modernized and optimized control that helps provide you with at-a-glance
understandability when working with your customers. You can use the timeline to view
information that is connected to a row in a table and occurs over time in a single stream. Some
information that can be logged into the timeline includes notes and posts, in addition to
displaying activities such as emails, appointments, phone calls, and tasks.
Timeline allows you to:
Access the command bar to perform common actions quickly
Filter and view important notes, posts, and activities using multiple filter options, and
keep the filtered settings across activities
Quickly view and manage email conversation threads with ease
Keep detailed customer records by attaching important files and images to posts

Timeline functionality
The timeline section on the table form is intended to centralize access to information and
streamline effort to accomplish actions. The following section is an overview of how the
timeline functionality works in each section on the table form.
When enabled by your system administrator, you can use the icons that are displayed on the
top-right navigation in the timeline for quick access to do the following actions:
Create a timeline row
Work with Filters

Work with row
Explore more commands
Search row
Add attachments
The timeline dashboard displays only the entities that are configured for the signed-in user. So,
what you see on the timeline may differ from what another user sees. The signed-in user sees
any rows they followed if those rows are configured to display on the dashboard. For example,
if only email and appointments are configured to display, then the signed-in user only sees
email that relates to them, which can be email they sent, email sent to them, and email they
follow. The same would be true for appointments in this scenario. For more information on
setting up timeline, see Set up the timeline control.
７ Note
The Notes feature isn't available from the timeline.

Create a timeline row
When enabled by your system administrator, you can use the Create a timeline record feature
to quickly create appointments, tasks, send emails, and make notes and posts and associate
them with other rows.
1. Select Create a timeline record icon.

2. Select the type of row you want to create from the display options available.

For information on timeline row configuration, Set up the timeline control.

Work with filters
When enabled by your system administrator, the timeline Filter further streamlines your
productivity by allowing you to customize your experience and view data that's relevant to you.

Legend:
1. The timeline Filter

icon is located in the top-right navigation on the timeline.

2. The filter pane displays when the filter icon is selected.
3. Use the carats to expand or minimize selections.
4. When enabled by your system administrator, row and activity types are displayed in the
filter pane. Row and activity types can be filtered by selecting the corresponding box next
to the item.
5. The

icon removes and clears all filter selections from the filter pane.

Filter rows on timeline

Filters are valuable for sorting data. You can easily filter through rows and activity types using
multiple options to quickly see what matters to you. The filter is available for the activities,
notes, posts, and custom entities that are present in timeline.

Filter icon display
When the Filter icon displays as a transparent

, it means the filter pane is empty and

nothing has been applied.
When the Filter icon displays as dark

, it means filters are applied.

Filter options
The following category and subcategory options are available on the filer menu:
ﾉ

Category

Subcategory

Row type

Notes
Posts

Expand table

Activities
Activity type

Appointment
Campaign Activity
Campaign Response
Email
Fax
Case Resolution
Letter
Opportunity Close
Order Close
Phone Call
Quote Close
Recurring Appointment
Social Activity
Task
Project Service Approval
Booking Alert
Conversation
Session
Customer Voice survey invite
Customer Voice survey response
Custom activities (as configured by your system administrator)

Activity status

Active
Overdue

Category

Subcategory
Closed

Activity due date (active)

Next 30 days
Next seven days
Next 24 hours
Last 24 hours
Last seven days
Last 30 days

Posts by

Auto post
Users

Modified date

Last 24 hours
Last seven days
Last 30 days

Save filter settings
You can choose to save your filter settings so that you don't have to set them again each time
you work with activities in the timeline.
To save your filter settings, after configuring the filters you want, select the ellipses, and then
select Remember my filters.
７ Note
If you have a system administrator or basic user role, Remember my filters works by
default. If you don't have either of these roles, you must have Create/Read/Write
privileges to be added to the msdyn_customcontrolextendedsettings table for the setting
to work.

Work with rows
When working with rows, you can view key information at a glance or expand rows to view
more details. When you hover over a row, actions display that you can use.

Expand all rows
When enabled by your system administrator, you can view timeline rows quickly in a collapsed
format or expand a row to see more details for ease of use.

Legend
1. The Expand all records

icon is used to expand all rows listed on the timeline.

2. The Modified on timestamp displays the time the record was last updated.
3. Each row has a list of commands relevant to their row type that displays in the top right
corner for ease of use.
4. Row backgrounds change to grey when you hover over it, and it becomes transparent
again when you move the mouse away.
5. The carats in the bottom-right corner of each row allow you to expand (^) or minimize (v)
the display views.

More commands
The More commands option contains refresh, sort, and email functionalities.

Legend
1. The More commands

icon, when expanded, provides more functionality options.

2. The Refresh timeline command updates row details in the timeline.
3. The Sort newer to older or Sort older to newer command is used to sort rows.
4. The Show email as command is used to enable or disable threaded email views.
5. The Display layout command allows you to choose from two different views: Roomy or
Cozy. Roomy (set by default) shows you more information, such as profile details, and
adds space between the rows. Cozy hides some of the details, such as icons, and
compacts the space between rows.
6. The Remember my filters command allows your filters to persist when you close the
record so that they continue to be applied across sessions.
7. The Reset to default command reverts all of the command settings you changed back to
the default settings.

View email inline in timeline
If preferred, you can view email messages inline on the timeline rather than open them as
separate pages.
To view an email directly in the timeline, on the row, select View more. The email is displayed
on the same form. When you’re finished viewing the email, you can collapse the screen and
return to the previous view of the form.

Threaded email views in timeline
Use the threaded email view option to save valuable space when you have emails with multiple
replies. This view consolidates email threads when collapsed.
Collapsed threaded email view

Legend

1. When enabled using the Always show email as conversations option under More
commands

, emails with multiple responses are grouped together into threaded

emails.
2. The Show more link appears in the bottom-left corner of the last visible email in the
thread to view the complete string of email responses.
Expanded threaded email view

Legend
1. When expanded, the most recent 10 email responses in the thread display. To display
more, select Show more to expand the view again.
2. Emails in the same thread are displayed as being linked together.

Enable threaded email views in timeline

Enabling the threaded email view is done via the timeline configuration in Power Apps.
Threaded email views must be done in this setting for the specific table, in the specific form, for
each specific timeline.
Threaded email views can be enabled in timeline via two options:
Option 1:
You can enable the threaded email view using the More Commands

feature, located on

the right-hand side of the timeline.
Enable threaded email through the More Commands option
Steps:
1. Use the More commands

icon on timeline that displays a flyout menu.

2. Select Always show email as conversations to thread and group all emails in that specific
timeline.

Option 2:
Enable threaded email through Personal Options setting
To enable threaded email via this option, go to the command bar and select Settings, then
Personalization Settings. The Set Personal Options dialog box is displayed so you can use the
following steps to enable the threaded email view on timeline.
Steps:
1. Select the Email tab.
2. Select the Show emails as conversation on Timeline check box.
3. Select OK.

７ Note
The emails as conversation view is based on the user's preference. Personal settings are
tied to the user, not the form, which means when you enable the threaded email view, the
setting is applied to all of your timeline views.

Search rows on timeline
When enabled by your system administrator, you can easily search for rows in the timeline.
When you search for a phrase in the timeline, it searches in the title, subject of the row, body,
or description fields of the row and displays the row for you.

Legend
1. The Search bar allows you to quickly find rows using keywords or phrases that the search
feature retrieves and displays below the search bar.
2. Keywords that are used are highlighted.

Work with notes and posts
Notes allow you to record richly formatted information and images for reference, summary, or
investigation. You can easily add a mention to another user or a reference to a timeline row.
The mention capability is available in timeline only when rich text notes and rich text posts are
enabled.
When you type the @ symbol, the results you see are matches with the first name, last name,
or email address of system users starting with your search string. When you mouse over the
profile image, you can view the user's detailed profile card and online presence status. More
information: View the profile card for a contact or user.
When you type the # symbol, the results you see are matches with the account and contact
name table rows starting with your search string.

Add a note or post to a row on timeline
When enabled by your system administrator, you can either add a note or a post to a row on
timeline. Each note and post has a maximum size limit of 100,000 characters.
You can also enter a note and add it to a row, but you can only add one attachment per note.
You can only add an attachment if notes are enabled.
Note display view
When enabled by your system administrator, the Note field is displayed under the Search
feature on timeline.

Post display view
When enabled by your system administrator, the Post field is also displayed under the Search
feature on timeline.

Add an attachment to a post
You can add an attachment to a post, such an image or a document. The supported file
formats are as follows: .JPG, .PNG, and .PDF.
To add an attachment to a post:
1. In the Create a post section in the timeline, select the Attach icon in the lower-left corner.

2. Browse to the file you want to attach to the post, and then select it.
3. Finish the edits you want to make to your post, and then in the timeline, select Add post.

Preview an attachment in the timeline
You can view previews of attachments in the timeline if they're in the supported file format
(.JPG, .PNG., or .PDF). Any attachment that's viewable inline on the timeline can be
downloaded, whether or not a preview is available.

To preview an attachment in the timeline, do either of the following steps:
In edit mode:
1. Right-click the attachment, and then select Preview. The Attachment preview dialog
opens with the attachment displayed. You can view and download the attachment from
the dialog.
2. When you're finished viewing the attachment, select Close to return to the note or post.
OR
In read mode:
1. Select the attachment. The Attachment preview dialog opens with the attachment
displayed. You can view and download the attachment from the dialog.
2. When you're finished viewing or downloading the attachment, select Close to return to
the note or post.
７ Note
The use of the Attachment preview dialog to view the file can be skipped in the browser
by using Ctrl + Left click (of mouse). By doing so, the attachment is directly downloaded
without previewing it.

Access the command bar to perform actions
When you hover your cursor on or expand an activity, post, or note, the command bar appears
in the top-right corner of the row with the specific options that support that activity, such as

assigning it to others, adding it to a queue, converting it to a case, liking or replying to a post,
editing a note, or deleting an activity. However, not all rows can perform the same actions.
Command actions by row

Legend
1. Only the actions associated with that row are displayed in the top-right command bar
displayed in the row.
2. Each row displays a different set of associated actions. Not all actions work on all rows.
The following table is an overview of the command bar icons and the actions they support:
ﾉ

Expand table

Icon

Name

Description

Assign

Lets you assign a task.

Close

Lets you close the activity row.

Activity
Add to

Lets you add a task to a queue.

Queue
Open Row

Lets you open a row.

Delete

Lets you delete the row.

Reply

Lets you reply to an email. Note: This
command is only available for Email.

Reply All

Lets you reply to all for an email. Note: This
command is only available on Email.

Forward

Lets you forward an email. Note: This
command is only available on Email.

Like this

Lets you like a post. Note: This command is

post

only available on Posts.

Edit this

Lets you edit a note. Note: This command is

note

only available on Notes.

The following table is an overview of the default command bars for frequently used activities,
notes, and posts:
ﾉ

Activity

Command bar icons

Email (draft)

Open Row, Delete

Email

Reply, Reply All, Forward,
Open Row

Appointment

Assign, Close Activity, Add
to Queue, Open Row, Delete

Notes

Expand table

Activity

Command bar icons

Appointment

Assign, Add to Queue, Open

(closed)

Row, Delete

Task

Assign, Close Activity, Add

Notes

to Queue, Open Row, Delete
Task (closed)

Assign, Add to Queue, Open
Row, Delete

Phone Call

Assign, Add to Queue, Open
Row, Delete

Note

Edit, Delete

Post (user)

Like, Reply, Delete

Only the author of the post has the ability to delete it.
The author always has the ability to delete regardless
of user privilege.

Autopost

Like, Reply, Delete

Work with notes
The Note message box has a rich text editor that enables you to use rich text and create wellformatted content.

Legend
1. Note title field for adding headings and subjects.
2. Notes have a rich text editor so you can format and structure your messages.
3. The rich text editing tool expands to a full menu for quick access to formatting features.
4. The paperclip is used to attach files to your note.
5. Attached files are displayed at the bottom of the note.
７ Note
Only Notes have rich text capability, and they're only available in the timeline.
You can only format the message body of a note; not the title.
The rich text editor is available only for Unified Interface.

If you create a rich text editor note in Unified Interface and then view the note in the
web client, it displays in HTML syntax.

View whether a note has attachments and inline files in the
timeline
If you attach a file to a note or include an inline image in the note, the timeline shows that the
note has an attachment or inline files. If you attach a file or include multiple files inline, the
note shows the number of files using the first two file names and a number to represent the
remaining count of and the file type.

Add a mention or reference a team member in a note

Legend
1. Typing the @ sign in the Note field displays a flyout menu with a list of users that have
been recently used.
2. If the user row isn't displayed, typing the name after the @ sign refreshes the rows in the
flyout menu using the Quick Find search engine that's operating in the background.
3. Switch views using Advanced to display the Lookup Records pane. In the Lookup
Records pane, you can switch between the Recent records and All records view to search
rows.
When you mouse over the profile image, you can view the user's detailed profile card and
online presence status.

７ Note
You can mention only a system user in a note. For example, a team member within your
organization.

Add an attachment to a note in timeline
When enabled by your system administrator, you can add an attachment, such as a file, to a
note in timeline to share with users. Any attachment that is viewable inline on the timeline can
be downloaded, whether or not a preview is available.
７ Note
The list of allowed attachments is configured by your system administrator.
On iOS and Android you can only select and attach a picture or video.

Select the paperclip

icon to attach a file to a note.

Edit Note
When you attach a file to your note, the Edit note screen displays, and attachments show at
the bottom of the Edit note screen.
） Important
You can only add one file attachment per note.

Quickly save notes
The Quick save feature allows you to save your notes faster by selecting Ctrl+S on your
keyboard at any point when you're typing a note. When you use Quick save, you don't have to
navigate to Save or Save and Close on the command bar.
When you use Ctrl+S, a Save successful confirmation message is displayed in the note to let
you know your note saved on the timeline.

Work with posts
When enabled by your system administrator, you can either add a post to a row or mention to
another user or timeline.

Add a mention or reference a team member in a post

Legend
1. Typing the @ sign in the Post field displays a flyout menu with a list of users that have
been recently used.
2. If the user row isn't displayed, typing the name after the @ sign refreshes the rows in the
flyout menu using the Quick Find search engine that's operating in the background.
3. Switch views using Advanced to display the Lookup Records pane. In the Lookup
Records pane, you can switch between the Recent records and All records view to search
rows.
When you mouse over the profile image, you can view the user's detailed profile card and
online presence status.

７ Note
You can mention only a system user, i.e. a team member within your organization, in a
post.

Add references in a post in timeline rows
To add a reference such as links in a post to a timeline row, select the
then complete these steps:

icon, select Post, and

Legend
1. Links can be added to a row by typing # which displays a flyout menu with a list of rows
recently accessed. Type a keyword after the # tag and the display refreshes in the flyout
menu via the Quick Find search engine that's operating in the background.
2. Rows displayed can be of any row type, such as accounts, contacts, or leads.
3. The icons beside the row names in the flyout menu indicate the row types, which help
you determine which row to select.
4. Advanced provides more options when a row can't be located by allowing the user to
switch to a different view or create a new row.

Look up rows in posts in timeline

Legend
1. The Lookup Records pane provides users with options to switch between the Recent
records and All records view to find a row.
2. Change View to see rows from a different view.
3. New Record allows you to create a new row if you can't find the row you need.
For more information on notes and post functionality and configuration, see: Set up the
timeline control

Use the rich text editor toolbar
The rich text editor toolbar provides features and functionality that allows you to work with rich
text format in notes.

Formatting options

The following table describes the different formatting features and functionality options that
are available in the rich text editor that you can use in notes.
７ Note
You can access your browser's context menu by selecting Ctrl + right-click. This setting is
useful if you need to use your browser's built-in spellchecker. Otherwise, you can rightclick to provide contextual formatting for any element you are using.

ﾉ

Icon

Expand table

Name

Shortcut key

Description

Format
Painter

Ctrl+Shift+C,
Ctrl+Shift+V

Apply the look of a particular section to another section.

Font

Ctrl+Shift+F

Select a font of your choice. The default font is Segoe UI.
Note: When you select any formatted content, the font name
for that content displays. If your selection contains multiple
fonts, the topmost font name of your selection is displayed.

Font size

Ctrl+Shift+P

Change the size of your text. The default size is 9 pt.
Note: When you select any formatted content, the font size
for that content displays. If your selection contains multiple
font sizes, the topmost font name of your selection is
displayed.

Bold

Ctrl+B

Make your text bold.

Italic

Ctrl+I

Italicize your text.

Underline

Ctrl+U

Underline your text.

Text Highlight
Color

Make your text stand out by highlighting it in a bright color.

Font Color

Change the color of your text.

Bullets

Create a bulleted list.

Numbering

Create a numbered list.

Decrease

Move your paragraph closer to the margin.

Indent

Icon

Name

Shortcut key

Increase

Description
Move your paragraph farther away from the margin.

Indent
Block Quote

Apply a block-level quotation format in your content.

Align Left

Ctrl+L

Align your content with the left margin. (Commonly used for
body text to make it easier to read.)

Align Center

Ctrl+E

Center your content on the page. (Commonly used for a
formal appearance.)

Align Right

Ctrl+R

Align content to the right on the page. (Commonly used for a
formal appearance.)

Link

Create a link in your document for quick access to web pages
and files.
Pasted or typed URL text is converted into a link. For example,
"http://myexample.com" becomes "http://myexample.com

".

In the Link dialog box, choose the type of link you'd like to
insert.
The Link Info tab allows you to choose the link type and set
the link protocol and URL.
The Target tab is only available for the URL link type. It
specifies the location where the link opens after you select it.
Unlink

Delete a link in your email or document.
When you place the cursor on a link, the Unlink button on the
toolbar becomes active. Select the button to remove the link
and make it plain text.

Superscript

Type small letters just above the line of text.

Subscript

Type small letters just below the line of text.

Strikethrough

Cross out text by drawing a line through it.

Insert Image

You can insert an image by directly copying and pasting it
inline in the editor, dragging and dropping it from your
desktop or local folder directly into the editor, or by typing a
URL. The following formats are supported: .PNG, .JPG., or .GIF.
To insert an image inline in your article:
1. Drag and drop the image or copy and paste it directly into
the article.

Icon

Name

Shortcut key

Description
2. Drag any corner of the image to resize it.
To insert an image using a URL or navigating to the local
image:
1. Choose Insert Image.
2. In the Image property dialog, choose from the following
options:
Select Browse to navigate to the image on your
computer.
Or specify the web address of the image, and properties
to define how the image appears in the email or article.
Note:
If the image is located on the external server, use the
full absolute path.
If the image is located on a local server, you can use
a relative path.
If you want the image to be linked to a target, add a
URL for the image.
You can also specify if you want the targeted page to
open in a new window, topmost window, same
window, or parent window.

Left to Right

Change the text to left-to-right for content such as a
paragraph, header, table, or list. Commonly used for bidirectional language content. This setting is the default
setting.

Right to Left

Change the text to right-to-left for content such as a
paragraph, header, table, or list. Commonly used for bidirectional language content. The default setting is left-toright.

Undo Typing

Undo changes you made to the content.

Redo Typing

Redo changes you made to the content.

Clear All
Formatting

Remove all formatting from a selection of text, leaving only
the normal, unformatted text.

Add a Table

Add a table to your content.
After adding a table, you can do any of the following:
Resize table columns by clicking and dragging your
mouse to resize to the columns to the desired width.

Icon

Name

Shortcut key

Description
Select one or several cells within a table and apply
specific formatting, add links to the selection, or cut,
copy, or paste entire rows or columns.
Right-click to access the properties. This setting
supports features such as cell type, width and height,
word wrapping, alignment, merging, and splitting cells
horizontally and vertically, inserting or deleting rows
and columns, row and column span, and cell and border
color.

Expand

Appears when the toolbar is collapsed. Select to expand the

Toolbar

toolbar and make all options visible.

Copy to

Copies entire text in a note to the clipboard so that you can

Clipboard

paste the contents in another location.

The rich text editor is enabled by default. Your system administrator can enable or disable the
editor for you.

Use timeline highlights powered by generative AI
If timeline highlights are enabled on your app, Copilot creates an AI-generated, bulleted list
that populates at the top of the timeline. You can use timeline highlights to quickly get caught
up on a record's status.
The highlights include a record's main activities, such as details about who you or the previous
user interacted with, the reported issue, and actions taken to try to resolve the issue.
You can copy the timeline highlights by selecting Copy.

） Important
This feature is only available with Power Platform environments with Dataverse that have
the Enable Dynamics 365 apps setting enabled.

View a conversation transcript
In the timeline, you can view the transcripts of completed chats you had in conversation
channels. To view these transcripts, you must have prvReadmsdyn_transcript permission. More
information: Roles and permissions
To view a conversation transcript, select the View more link in the row for which you want to
view the transcript. The row expands and the entire transcript is displayed inline.

View what you missed in timeline
When you access the timeline after being away, activities that you missed display at the top of
the timeline, denoted with a blue vertical line next to them. You can quickly open the activities
or scroll past them.

Pin or unpin records in timeline
If your administrator has enabled the pin setting and you have write/delete access, you can
quickly access records, such as activities, by keeping them at the top of the timeline. Pinning a
record eliminates the need to scroll through every record to find the one you need.
７ Note
If you have a system administrator or basic user role, the pin and unpin settings work by
default. If you don't have either of these roles, you must have Create/Read/Write
privileges to be added to the msdyn_customcontrolextendedsettings table for these
settings to work.
By default, you can pin notes. The activities that you can pin depend on how your administrator
has set up the feature. More information: Let users pin and unpin activities to the top of
timeline.
Pin a record by selecting the pin icon next to it. This setting moves it to the top of the timeline
in the Pinned section, where it can be quickly accessed. The Pinned section also lists the
number of records that are pinned. You can pin a maximum of 15 records. Records that are
pinned will stay at the top of the timeline for a year unless you unpin them.

To unpin a record, select the pin icon next to it. Unpinning it moves it out of the Pinned section
and back to where it originally appeared in the list of records in the timeline.

Bookmarks
Bookmarks are a quick way for the user to set, and switch between, different sets of filters.
Bookmarks are enabled by default. If necessary, you can disable them from the Advanced
section.
７ Note
Bookmarks feature replaces Remember my filters button. Use the steps in the following
section to set up your user filters.

Create a bookmark
1. Open the filter pane, and select the filters that will be associated with the new bookmark.
You may have no filters selected.
2. Select the bookmark icon

in timeline's action bar.

3. Select Add bookmark.
4. Enter a bookmark name. Optionally, set it as a default bookmark.
5. Select Save.
Selecting the bookmark icon again will now display a flyout of your created bookmarks. You
can apply a bookmark by selecting it from this list, or edit it using the More options button on
the right side of the bookmark.
If a bookmark is selected, its filters are applied to the timeline, and is indicated by a filled
bookmark icon

in the action bar. Hover over the icon to see the name of the bookmark, or

select the icon. The selected bookmark has a grey background color.
７ Note
You can have a maximum of 15 bookmarks.

Edit a bookmark
Any bookmark can be renamed, updated, or deleted from the More options menu.
７ Note
Selecting Delete directly deletes the bookmark.

Updating a bookmark will change its filters to the currently selected filters.

You may also set this bookmark as a default for the current form or all forms.

Set a default bookmark
When creating or updating a bookmark, you may select the Set as default bookmark
checkbox, with the option to apply this change for the current form or globally.
A default bookmark has a star icon

next to its name, and is selected automatically when

the timeline loads, overriding any admin filters set for timeline.
７ Note
You may set a bookmark as a form default for multiple forms; however, it can't be both a
form default and a global default. A form-default bookmark will override a global one.

Reset to the default view
If a nondefault bookmark is selected, or if other filters are applied, a reset to default button
appears in the bookmark flyout. This applies the default bookmark to timeline, if one exists,
otherwise clearing all filters.

Bookmark filters can't be applied
If a bookmark's filters can't be applied (for example, a bookmark that filters for notes while
timeline has notes disabled), then an exclamation mark icon is displayed next to its name.

See also

Set up timeline control
FAQs for timeline control
FAQs about Activities and the Timeline Wall

Create and join a Teams meeting from
an appointment
Article • 10/25/2022

Now you can create and join a Teams meeting from an appointment in your modeldriven app.

Add a Teams meeting to an appointment
1. From the left navigation pane, select Activities.
2. From the list of activities, select an existing appointment or select Appointment on
the command bar to create a new one.

3. Enter the required information and in the Details section, set the Teams meeting
toggle to, Yes.
） Important
For the join link to be created successfully, the user enabling the meeting for Teams
needs to be the meeting organizer. The organizer field is not exposed by default on
the appointment form but the value defaults to the user who creates the meeting.

4. When you're done, select Save.
７ Note

It may take a couple of minutes for the meeting to sync with Outlook and for the
meeting link to appear in the appoitnment.

Join a Teams meeting from an appointment
1. Open an appointment activity.
2. Choose one of the following ways to join the meeting:
On the command bar select, Join Teams Meeting.
From the Details section, select the Join Teams Meeting link.
Scroll down the Description section of the appointment and select, Click here
to join the meeting.

3. Follow the instructions on your screen and choose how you want to join the Teams
meeting.

７ Note
For the meeting to synchronize from Dynamics 365 to the user's calendar in
Microsoft Outlook and Teams, the user needs to be configured for appointment,
contact, and task synchronization.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Known issues about activities
ﾃ

Summarize this article for me

Learn about known issues that may occur with activities in model-driven apps.
On appointment grids, all-day appointments may show incorrect values for Start Time
and End Time. This issue is limited to the grid control showing appointment records, as
forms and calendar control show correct Start Time and End Time for all-day
appointments.
To fix this issue, use the calendar control as the default control to view appointments.
The process that checks for conflicts for the people and resources on an appointment is
triggered only when a valid Dynamics 365 solution is installed on the environment, as this
requires a few scheduling-related tables to be a part of the environment. Appointments
created in an environment without a relevant Dynamics 365 solution installed have an
Open status, rather than the Scheduled status. For more information on the scheduling
tables and the license required, see Restricted tables for create, update, and delete
operations.
When you use the calendar control view for appointments and navigate through time
periods (like moving from Day to Week view or using the navigation arrows), selecting
Edit filters and then Apply can result in duplicate Start Time and End Time filter
conditions. This duplication causes appointments not to display in the view. To resolve
this issue, select Edit filters, manually remove one set of the duplicated Start Time and
End Time filters, and then select Apply. Alternatively, work in the grid view instead of the
calendar view.
Error message Unable to find one-to-many relationship, entity: [entity name],
referencing entity: activityparty

This transient error appears when saving records with relationships to activity parties. The
root cause of the issue is that schema information about the relationship is not loaded
when you save the record. The work around is to try to save the record again because the
schema information will be loaded eventually. If this error occurs due to custom scripts on
the page, the script developer should catch the error and retry after a short delay.

Last updated on 02/16/2026

Understand the email experience
Article • 02/15/2022

Having the ability to communicate effectively with customers can lead to increased sales
and customer satisfaction. The email capability in customer engagement apps
empowers users with the ability to respond and provide timely customer interaction
effortlessly through quick email access with enhanced features and functionality. You
can compose, reply, and review email, as well as quickly attach and send images that
add value and support to customer communication using streamlined functionality. You
can also ensure interactions between you and your customers are consistent and
professional by using email templates with rich text and images.
You can work in either the navigate-to email or the contextual email experience. The
difference between the navigate-to vs. contextual email experience is where the email
displays on your screen. Both experiences use the same Enhanced Email form, which is
enabled by default out-of-the-box (OOTB).
） Important
Contextual email is also referred to as enhanced email. Please be aware that
there isn't any special functionality associated with the contextual email
experience, other than it is a pop-up experience.
Navigate-to email experience: Always displays in a new screen.
Contextual email experience: Can only be initiated from the timeline, displays
email in a pop-up screen, and allows you to:
Move to different pages without losing email content.
Minimize the email window to return to the records you were working on.
Simultaneously view, compose, and reply to five emails in pop-up windows
when enabled.
The following highlights the difference between the "navigate-to" and contextual email
experience in the timeline based on how your system administrator has configured your
email:
1. Select Create a timeline record.

2. Select Email.

Depending on the experience you are using, your email will display as follows:
ﾉ

Navigate-to email experience

-

Expand table

Contextual email experience

The "navigate-to" email will display in

The contextual email will display in a pop-up

a new screen.

window on your current screen.

） Important
The pop-up window only opens when the height and width of your
screen size is at least 400 x 650 pixels or greater. If lower, "navigate-to"
email will be the default experience.
The contextual email experience is available only for timeline.

７ Note
If you use customized forms in email, you will still be able to see and use
them. The Enhanced Email form showcases various email capabilities

and functionality.
For more information, see View, compose and respond to email.

See also
Set up enhanced email
Insert an email template

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

View, compose and respond to email
Users can more quickly view, create, and send emails with streamlined access. Rich text editing
and drag-and-drop attachments help them compose and reply to messages.

Access and view emails

Legend
1. Select Activities
2. Select All Activities
3. Under Activity Type select Email. The email list appears in the screen.

Compose an email
Email capabilities, like rich-text editing and drag-and-drop or copy-and-paste images enriches
customer interactions when composing email.
When enabled by your system administrator, you can access email from the top navigation bar.

Compose an email

1. Select Activities
2. On the command bar, select Email. An email then opens in a new window where you can
begin composing.

Anatomy of an email form

Legend

1. From. The name displayed in the From field is automatically populated based on the user
who is currently signed in.
2. Expand. The Expand

icon allows you to compose your email in a full-screen view and

minimize when done.
3. Rich text editor. This tool bar helps you format emails. The editor is displayed as a single
line that can be expanded to view the full list of editing features by default. For more
information, see Use the rich text editor toolbar in email and Accessibility shortcuts for
email. User Personalization. The

icon allows you to set the default font and font size for

your emails. Once set, the Font and Font Size display these values by default.
4. Body. The body is where you compose and/or reply to an email.
5. Insert Signature. Use this command to personalize your message.
6. Insert Template. This function is used to apply an email template.
For more information, see Insert an email template.
７ Note
The To box must contain a recipient to select a template.
7. New Attachment. This command is used to add a file to your email.
8. Attach File. This command uses the 'plus'

icon functionality to add attachments.

７ Note
After you save your email, you can use Attach file and New Attachments
interchangeably.
9. Send. Select this icon

to Send your email.

） Important
The From and To fields are automatically populated based on the user and the
account and contact of the original record.

View email sentiment
After an administrator enables and configures email sentiment analysis, and ensures that the
email form includes the Sentiment field, the customer sentiment card is displayed for incoming
customer emails that meet the configured criteria.
The customer sentiment card displays the following features:

Current sentiment: The customer’s current sentiment. A sentiment intensity indicator in the
corresponding colors is also displayed.
Sentiment timeline: A visual representation that shows how the customer sentiment in the
emails received changes across a period.
The timeline displays indicators for up to six customer emails, including the current email.
Customer service representatives can select historical sentiment and then select View email.
The system shows the relevant email for that period and sentiment in a new tab.

The Inbox view also displays the sentiment with the sentiment intensity indicator.
７ Note
For emails received before the feature is enabled, the system doesn’t display the sentiment.

Reply to an email
The way you can reply to an email depends on where you are in your app.
When enabled by your system administrator, the email option displays in the top navigation bar
and in the activities command bar.
７ Note
The best performance is achieved when the HTML content size is 1 MB or less. When your
HTML content size exceeds 1 MB, you might notice slower response times for loading and
editing content. By default, image content is referenced from the content HTML but isn't
stored as part of the HTML content, so in the default configuration, images don't negatively
impact performance.

Enhanced recipient handling
Users can perform the following actions only if the administrator added the Email Recipient
control component to an email form:
Drag and drop recipient names across To, CC, and BCC fields.
View the recipient's email address along with their names.
View the recipients' presence status and out-of-office messages.
Resolve an unresolved email address faster. In the email editor, if there's an unresolved
email address, the application displays a banner message and the Review option to map the
email. Select the button to view and map an unresolved email address to an existing record.
７ Note
You can't resolve an unresolved email address for a read-only email.

Access email
When you access email, there are a couple of options you can use.
Option 1:

Select Email on the command bar.
７ Note
Email option will only appear in the drop-down list and the command bar when
enabled by your system administrator.
Option 2:

1. From the navigation bar, select the plus

icon.

2. Select Email from the drop-down menu.

Set the default font and font size
You can set the default font and font size for your email text. Perform the following steps:
In the email editor, in the Rich text editor tool bar, select

.

In User Personalization specify the Font and Font Size.
Select Ok. The application defaults the values specified in the Font and Font Size fields of
the rich text editor toolbar.
If your administrator set a default font and font size, the application displays the set values in the
Font and Font Size fields of the rich text editor toolbar.

Reply to email in timeline
When you reply to an email in the timeline, the command bar in the top-right corner provides
you with reply options. When you select an option, your email automatically is set and opens in
that state ready for you to begin your message.
You can use the following command options when working with emails in the timeline.

1. Reply. Use this command to reply directly the sender of the email you received.
2. Reply All. Use this command to reply to everyone on an email you received.
3. Forward. Use this command to forward the email to someone else.

Download email
Select Download to download emails as an .eml file.

Last updated on 05/02/2026

Attach a file to email
Article • 02/01/2024

The option to attach files to an email is a useful feature when you need to share
additional information. Use the Attach file button on the command menu or the New
Attachments button in the email body to attach files to the email.
） Important
The default file size limit for an email file attachment is 5 MB. The size
limitations on email file attachments can be increased by your system
administrators.
You can't attach files to sent email messages after they have been attempted
for delivery through server-side synchronization.

Work with attachments
You can attach an unlimited number of files to an email; however, there are file size
limitations that are managed by your system administrator.
Enhanced email is the default email form, however you can switch forms by doing the
following:

1. Under the email subject name, select on the caret (v) next to Email
2. A dropdown appears with a list of email form options you can choose from.

File attachments display differently, depending on the email form you're working in. You
can switch email forms without losing information.

If you specify "attach" or "attachments" in the subject or the body of the email and you
select Send without attaching a file, the application displays a warning message
reminding you to attach a file.
） Important
The warning message reminding you to attach a file is an early access feature.
Early access features aren't meant for production use and may have restricted
functionality. These features are available before an official release so that
customers can get early access and provide feedback.

Email form file attachment

1. Email. This display confirms which email form you're working in.
2. Attachment. This section displays a list of file attachments in a vertical view and
only displays the first three attachments.
3. File count. This displays when you have more files than what can be viewed and
allows you to see the total number of attached files on the left side under the last
attachment with the option to page over to see more files.

Enhanced email form file attachment

1. Enhanced Email. This display confirms you're working in the Enhanced email form.
2. Attached files. This section displays all your email attachments in a tile view above
your message horizontally. The defaulted setting for the maximum number of files
that can display is five attachments before displaying the page forward
functionality.
3. File count. This displays when you have files that occupy more than two rows and
allows you to see the total number of attached files on the left side under the last
attachment with the option to page over to see more files.
4. Attachment Commands. This allows you to use the select, select all, sort, delete,
and download functionality when working with your file attachments.

Work with the attachment command bar
When you’ve attached one or more files to a message, you can manage them using the
file attachment commands.

Select commands
Select commands allow you to select individual files or multiple files at once.

Legend
1. Select All. This command is located on the right, above your attached files and
allows you to select all file attachments at once.
７ Note
Select All only selects files that are visible. If you have multiple pages of file
attachments, you will need to go to that page and select those files
independently.
2. Tile Color Transparency. The background color of selected file attachments
changes to light grey to identify which files have been selected.

3. Check box You can also verify which files have been selected by viewing whether
the checkbox in the top-right corner of the file attachment is selected.
Formatting of file attachments in email can be realigned based on the device being used
and format it's being worked in.

1. Format Display Regardless of format display, file attachments will only display the
number of files that are enabled by your system administrator.
2. Page view. The page view displays the total number of email attachments and
always is displayed under the file attachments.

Delete and download commands
These are two of the most important commands when working with images.

1. Delete. This command works with the Select commands. You must first select a file
before you can delete it. A confirmation request appears, requiring you to confirm
you want to delete the file(s) you’ve selected.
2. Download. This command also works with the Select commands and your browser
download settings, allowing you to download an individual file or multiple files at
once.

Preview image attachments

1. More options. This command provides a list of actions for that file type.
2. Non-preview image. Only non-preview image types allow you to either export
selected records, download, or delete the attached file.
3. Preview image types. Allow you to export selected record, preview, download, or
delete the attached file. When you select the preview option, a pop-up window
appears, displaying the image with the image name listed below.

Supported email file attachments
The following is a list of file image types that are supported:
ﾉ

Expand table

image type

supports preview

supported inline (in editor)

BMP.bmp

Yes

Yes

GIF.gif

Yes

Yes

ICO.ico

Yes

Yes

JPG.jpg

Yes

Yes

PNG.png

Yes

Yes

SVG.svg

Yes

Yes

PDF.pdf

Yes (preview not supported on IE)

No

View and insert images in email
The use of visual aids helps users convey a tremendous amount of information with just
a glance. Having the ability to view and insert inline images in email using the drag-anddrop or copy-and-paste functionality is a powerful tool for users. Additionally, you can
browse to a file or reference an online URL using the image toolbar button.

You can drag-and-drop or copy-and-paste images into the email.

1. Email images You can adjust the image size.
2. Save. When you complete your edits, select Save or Save & Close.
７ Note
There's a 1 MB file size limitation when adding an inline image to an email for
email templates. (For new or replied emails, there isn't a limit to the email size
(it becomes part of the total email size).

Feedback

Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use the rich text editor toolbar in email
Article • 10/03/2022

The rich text editor toolbar provides features and functionality that allows you to work
with rich text formats in emails to better communicate with your customers.

Formatting options
The following table describes the different formatting features and functionality options
available in the rich text editor that you can use in the email form.
７ Note
You can access your browser's context menu by pressing Ctrl + right-click. This is
useful if you need to use your browser's built-in spell checker. Otherwise, you can
use the right-click to provide contextual formatting for any element you might be
using.

ﾉ

Icon

Expand table

Name

Shortcut key

Description

Format Painter

Ctrl+Shift+C,
Ctrl+Shift+V

Apply the look of a particular section to another
section.

Font

Ctrl+Shift+F

Select your desired font. The default font is Segoe UI.
Note: When you select any formatted content, the
font name for that content displays. If your selection
contains multiple fonts, the topmost font name of
your selection is displayed.

Font size

Ctrl+Shift+P

Change the size of your text. The default size is 9.
Note: When you select any formatted content, the
font size for that content displays. If your selection
contains multiple font sizes, the topmost font name of
your selection is displayed.

Bold

Ctrl+B

Make your text bold.

Italic

Ctrl+I

Italicize your text.

Icon

Name

Shortcut key

Description

Underline

Ctrl+U

Underline your text.

Text Highlight

Make your text stand out by highlighting it in a bright

Color

color.

Font Color

Change the color of your text.

Bullets

Create a bulleted list.

Numbering

Create a numbered list.

Decrease
Indent

Move your paragraph closer to the margin.

Increase Indent

Move your paragraph farther away from the margin.

Block Quote

Apply a block-level quotation format in your content.

Align Left

Ctrl+L

Align your content with the left margin. (Commonly
used for body text to make it easier to read.)

Align Center

Ctrl+E

Center your content on the page. (Commonly used
for a formal appearance.)

Align Right

Ctrl+R

Center your content on the page. (Commonly used
for a formal appearance.)

Link

Create a link in your document for quick access to
web pages and files.
Pasted or typed URL text is converted into a link. For
example, "http://myexample.com" will become
"http://myexample.com

".

In the Link dialog box, choose the type of link you'd
like to insert.
The Link Info tab allows you to choose the link type
as well as set the link protocol and URL.
The Target tab is only available for the URL link type.
It specifies the location where the link will open after
you select it.
Unlink

Delete a link in your email or document.
When you place the cursor on a link, the Unlink

Icon

Name

Shortcut key

Description
button on the toolbar becomes active. Select the
button to remove the link and make it plain text.

Superscript

Type very small letters just above the line of text.

Subscript

Type very small letters just below the line of text.

Strikethrough

Cross out text by drawing a line through it.

Insert Image

You can insert an image by directly copying and
pasting it inline in the editor, dragging and dropping
it from your desktop or local folder directly into the
editor, or by typing a URL. The following formats are
supported: .PNG, .JPG., or .GIF.
To insert an image inline in your article:
1. Drag and drop the image or copy and paste it
directly into the article.
2. Drag any corner of the image to resize it.
To insert an image using a URL or navigating to the
local image:
1. Choose Insert Image.
2. In the Image property dialog, choose from the
following options:
Select Browse to navigate to the image on your
computer.
Or specify the web address of the image, and
properties to define how the image will appear
in the email or article.
Note:
If the image is located on the external
server, use the full absolute path.
If the image is located on a local server, you
can use a relative path.
If you want the image to be linked to a
target, add a URL for the image.
You can also specify if you want the targeted
page to open in a new window, topmost
window, same window, or parent window.

Left to Right

Change the text to left-to-right for content such as a
paragraph, header, table, or list. Commonly used for
bi-directional language content. This is the default
setting.

Icon

Name
Right to Left

Shortcut key

Description
Change the text to right-to-left for content such as a
paragraph, header, table, or list. Commonly used for
bi-directional language content. The default setting is
left-to-right.

Undo Typing

Undo changes you made to the content.

Redo Typing

Redo changes you made to the content.

Clear All
Formatting

Remove all formatting from a selection of text, leaving
only the normal, unformatted text.

Add a Table

Add a table to your content.
After adding a table, you can do any of the following:

Resize table columns by clicking and dragging
your mouse to resize to the columns to the
desired width.
Select one or several cells within a table and
apply specific formatting, add links to the
selection, or cut, copy, or paste entire rows or
columns.
Right-click to access the properties. This
supports features such as cell type, width and
height, word wrapping, alignment, merging and
splitting cells horizontally and vertically,
inserting or deleting rows and columns, row
and column span, and cell and border color.

User
personalization

Select the default Font Name and Font Size. After
they're added, the Font and Font Size reflect these
values as default font and font size.

Expand Toolbar

Displays when the toolbar is collapsed and not all
options appear. Click to expand the toolbar and make
all options visible.

７ Note
You can access your browser's context menu by pressing Ctrl + right-click. This is
useful if you need to use your browser's built-in spell checker. Otherwise, you can

use the right-click to provide contextual formatting for any element you might be
using.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Send email to multiple recipients
Article • 02/15/2022

You can send an email to multiple recipients by using email templates. This is known as
direct or bulk emailing. By default, the direct email feature is disabled. An administrator
must enable the direct email feature by selecting Yes for Enable Send Direct Email
Action in Unified Interface for Send Email enabled tables on the Email tab in the
System Settings dialog box. More information: System Settings Email tab
To send email to multiple recipients
1. In the site map for the model-driven app, select a table to which you want to send
email. For example, Contacts.
2. In the list of rows, select the contacts you want to send an email to.
3. On the command bar, select Send Direct Email.

4. In the Send Email pane, select an email template from the Template list.
７ Note
If you have multiple rows that span multiple pages, you can select one of
following options from the To list:
All rows on current page: Sends the email to all rows displayed on
the current page.
All rows on all pages: Sends the email to all the stored rows.
If a few rows don't have an email address or they have an invalid email
address, those rows will be skipped from sending the email.

5. Select Send.

Check the status of bulk email action
You can check the status of bulk email action on the System Jobs page. You can see
whether the bulk email job has failed or succeeded. If a job has failed, you can open the
failed job to see its details.
To check the bulk email status
1. In your app, select the Settings icon, and then select Advanced Settings.

The Business Management page opens in a new browser tab.
2. On the navigation bar, select Settings, and then under System, select System Jobs.
A list of system jobs is displayed.

3. In the grid header, select Filter

.

4. In the System Job Type column header, select the down arrow, select Bulk Email,
and then select OK.

Bulk email jobs are displayed with their corresponding status.

5. Double-click the failed job to see its details.

See also
System Settings Email tab

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Resolve an unresolved email recipient
Article • 02/15/2022

An unresolved email recipient is one whose email address isn't associated with any table
rows in Microsoft Dataverse. By default, you can't send an email to an unresolved email
recipient. If you enter an unresolved email recipient address, the email address is
deleted as soon as you move the focus out of the To, Cc, or Bcc column. An
administrator must enable the unresolved email recipient feature by selecting Yes for
Allow messages with unresolved email recipients to be sent on the Email tab in the
System Settings dialog box. More information: System Settings Email tab
After the feature is enabled, you can add an unresolved email recipient in the To, Cc, or
Bcc column. The entered email address is shown in red. You can then select the email
address and associate it with a table row in Dataverse without navigating away from the
email form.
If you receive an email that has email addresses that aren't associated with a table row,
the email addresses are shown in red. You can then individually select the email
addresses and associate them with a table row. You can then send emails to the newly
added email addresses.
To resolve an unresolved email recipient
1. Open the email editor and select the unresolved email recipient.

2. In the Lookup Rows pane, select New Row.

７ Note
If rows are displayed in search results, you can resolve the email to one of the
existing rows.
3. Select the row type to create. For example, Contacts.

4. In the Quick Create: Contact pane, enter the required details, and select Save and
Close.

5. The contact is created and selected in the Lookup Rows pane. Select Add.

6. The unresolved email recipient is resolved and shown in the To column in the email
editor.

See also
Allow unresolved email recipients

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Email FAQs and known issues
Article • 02/15/2022

Find answers to common questions regarding the email experience features and functionality, configurations, and
other key concepts.

Email content is lost after entering text in the body of
the message
Issue: Recent content added to the email may get lost if you enter text in the body of an email and immediately
select Save, Save and Close, or Send.
Resolution: To avoid this issue, wait a few seconds before you select Save, Save and Close, or Send after you enter
text in the body of the email.

The From column is read only or lookup isn't working
Issue: The From column in an email form is read-only or you can't look up rows and filter results by User or
Queue.
Resolution: This happens when customization specifically have been applied on this column by your system
administrator. To fix the issue, open a browser window and run the following two commands replacing the
environment URL with the URL of your environment.
(replace with your environment
URL)/api/data/v9.1/RemoveActiveCustomizations(SolutionComponentName='AttributeLookupValue',ComponentId=
(25E9AF0C-2341-DB11-898A-0007E9E17EBD))
(replace with your environment
URL)/api/data/v9.1/RemoveActiveCustomizations(SolutionComponentName='AttributeLookupValue',ComponentId=
(26E9AF0C-2341-DB11-898A-0007E9E17EBD))
To find the URL, in the address bar the first part of the URL that starts with https:// and ends with .com is your
environment URL. For more information on how to find the environment URL, see Get the environment UR.

I've enabled an email form but it doesn't display.
If you've enabled an email form but it is doesn't display, you'll need to enable it in the App Designer by doing the
following:
1. Go to Settings > Advanced Settings.
2. Select Settings.
3. In Application settings, select *Apps.
4. Select

More Options on Customer Service Hub.

5. On the App Designer drop-down menu, select Open.
6. On the site map, select the edit feature.
7. Under the Email form selector, select the drop-down menu to display the Email forms you have enabled.

If the form isn't displayed in the list, it hasn't been enabled.
8. To enable a form, go to Main Forms and select the form.
７ Note
You can't change the display order under Main Form. You must go back to the Form Order to change the
display order.

9. Add the email template and signature link to the site navigation by going to the site map and doing the
following:
a. Go to Settings > Advanced Settings.
b. Select Settings.
c. In Application settings, select *App.
d. Select More Options on the Customer Service Hub tile.
e. Select OPEN IN APP DESIGNER.

f. Select the pencil icon to edit.

g. When the site map opens, create a new group for templates by selecting New subarea.

h. Select email templates or email signature.
i. Add a title. (This is the name that will show instead of New subarea when saved.)
j. Save and publish. A link is added to the site map.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Create email templates
06/03/2025

） Important
As of May 23, 2025, the following functionalities will no longer be available:
The enhanced email template and legacy rich text editor.
The drag and drop functionality of the enhanced email template editor.
The modern rich text editor supports HTML formatting. Any existing templates
created using the enhanced email template editor will now open in the modern rich
text editor. If you any see any formatting issues, we recommend that you update or
recreate the template using the modern rich text editor.
Email templates are a fast and easy way to send consistent, professional, preformatted email
messages to your customers.
You can create email templates by using one of the following options:
Start with a blank template: Create a template from scratch.
Start with an existing template : Create a template by choosing an existing template.

Prerequisites
When you need to create an email template based on a table, make sure that you have the
necessary permissions on the related tables, such as the Account table for the email template
based on a case.

Start with a blank template
When you start with a blank template, nothing is provided for you. You must add everything
you want customers to see.
1. On the Email Templates command bar, select New, and then select Start with a blank
template.

2. Enter the following details:
Template name: Give your email template a detailed name to help you identify it
later.
Permission level: Select from Organization or Individual. More information:
Permission level for email templates
Category: The default value is User. Categories determine which dynamic text fields
are available for use in your template.
Language: Display installed language packs. Language also helps to categorize your
templates.
Create: Opens one of two editors where you can build your template.

3. Select Create. The template editor is displayed.

Permission level for email templates
Selecting Organization permission level for email templates allows you to create templates
that everyone in the organization can use. Individual permission level is for personal use.

７ Note
For Individual permission templates, these templates do not show up on the list of email
templates unless your are the owner of the templates or the owner has shared the
template with you.
For Organization permission templates, these templates show up for all users in the
organization.

Start with existing templates
Start with an existing template to create an email template faster and with less effort. The
template is pre-populated with data. All you need to do is customize it for your needs.
1. On the Email Templates command bar, select New, and then select Start with existing
templates.
2. Enter the following details:
Search: Search for the name of a template to start from. Search doesn't support
regular expressions.
Browse out-of-the-box templates, global and entity-specific, listed in alphabetical
order. Global templates are shown as the type User. If you've created custom email
templates, they're also listed.
Details. Preview the templates so that you can pick the one that best meets your
needs. You can modify it as needed later.

3. The template editor page is displayed.

Email template editor
You can use the email template editor to to create a new email template or edit an existing
template.

Designer tab: Use this tab to draft and apply standard formatting to your email template.
You can also add dynamic text, images, and attachments. You can add Copilot prompts to

your email template for a consistent experience. Learn more in Add Copilot prompts to
email template.
７ Note
Across all the model-driven apps, the email template editor supports upto 1048576
characters.
HTML tab: Use this tab to view and edit the HTML code of your email template. You can
add HTML code to customize your templates with elements such as layouts, images, and
buttons.
Template tab: Specify or change the template details and the email subject.
Attachments tab: Add attachments to your template if needed.

See also
Personalize content with Insert dynamic text
Understand the email experience

Personalize emails with dynamic text
Article • 03/05/2025

Generic greetings like "Dear customer" make customers less likely to engage with your
emails. Personalize your outreach instead with dynamic text in your email templates.
Dynamic text replaces a placeholder entity with the value of the entity when you send
the email. For example, your email template might contain "Dear {!User:First Name;} "
but your customer sees "Dear Sal".

Insert dynamic text
You can insert dynamic text in existing email templates or templates that you create.
７ Note
Dynamic text in a hyperlink or an anchor tag isn't supported.
1. Select Email Template to edit an existing template or create a new email template.
2. On the template editor, place your cursor where you want the personalized
content to appear.
3. Select Insert dynamic text.

4. Select the Record type and Field name.
The category that you specified when you created the email template determines
the record types you can choose. The record type you choose determines the fields
you can select.

Insert custom fields
You can insert fields from custom entities by typing them directly in your email
template.
Use the following syntax:
ﾉ

Field Type
Single line of text
Currency
Multiple lines of text
Decimal number
Floating number

Syntax
{!EntityLogicalName:FieldLogicalName;}

Expand table

Field Type

Syntax

Lookup

{!EntityLogicalName:FieldLogicalName/@name;}

Multi-select option set
Option set

Date

{!EntityLogicalName:FieldLogicalName/@date;}

Time

{!EntityLogicalName:FieldLogicalName/@time;}

For example, let's say you want to insert a custom field, Customer ID, linked to the
record type User. Type the following placeholder in your template:
{{!User:CustomerId;}} .

If you want to insert a custom field, ModifiedOn, linked to the record type User. Type the
following placeholder in your template: {{!User:ModifiedOn/@date;}} .

See also
How to create an email template in model-driven apps
Enable the enhanced email template editor page

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Insert an email template
Article • 04/14/2025

If you previously created an email template, you can easily use it as the basis for your email by
inserting it into the email.

You can access the email template you created from the command bar by selecting Insert
Template.

Insert an email template overview
After you select Insert Template, a window appears displaying a list of existing Email templates
that are available to use.
７ Note
There is an intermediary window that might appear if:
You don't have either a Recipient or Regarding field for your email.

You have both a Recipient and Regarding field. You must select one.

This window doesn't appear if your administrator has set Skip Select Record dialog in
Advanced Settings to Yes. The selection of one of these fields determines which template
types are shown to a user in the template selection window:
Recipient (TO): user (global) and contact templates are displayed.
Regarding: user (global) and templates for the regarding entity are shown.

Enhanced email template selection dialog
The application displays the enhanced email template selection window only if your admin has
configured the enhanced insert template dialog option. You can perform the following actions
in the enhanced email template selection window:
Switch between email template views.
Switch among list, tile, and grid views.
Search for templates based on their title, subject, description, or content of the template.
By default, you can filter templates based on standard and custom attributes, and
language, if your Administrator has enabled Language in the Template Gallery Filter
Form. See: Add the language filter in the email template selection view
Additionally, if your administrator has set Enable Email Template views in Advanced
Settings to Yes, you can filter templates based on the email template view filters.

Zoom in to view templates on a full screen. The application provides an option to
navigate between templates.

Legend
1. Search. Use search to find a template. You can search for templates based on name,
subject, description, or content. Search doesn't support regular expressions.
2. All templates. Choose and browse from the templates displayed based on TO or
Regarding, the filters applied, or a combination of both. You can change the view to
display the templates in a grid, list, or tile view. Hover over the template tile to see the
zoom option. Select the tile to open the template on a full screen.
3. Preview. When you select an email template, a preview of the template is displayed here.
The preview shows you the content so you can pick the template that best meets your
needs. After inserting an email template, you can modify the content as needed in the
email editor.
4. Filter. You can filter templates based on standard or custom attributes.
5. View. Use the view to switch between email template views. Copilot can recommend the
relevant email template for your email. The Copilot recommended templates view
displays five relevant email templates with prompts that Copilot recommends.
6. Use the dropdown list to switch between grid, tile, or list views. Based on your admin's
settings, the application displays a specific view. More information: Customize the email.

7. Record. Specify the Field Name and Record. The template types shown to a user is based
on what you've selected for these fields.
Recipient (TO): user (global) and contact templates are displayed.
Regarding: User (global) and templates for the regarding entity are shown. By
default, Field Name is set to Regarding.
７ Note
Bookable Resource Booking isn't supported.
You can see the Record tab and switch between email template views only if your
administrator has enabled the Enable Email Template views and Skip Select Record
dialog. More information: Customize the enhanced email template selection view
The enhanced email template selection view might vary based on the customizations
your administrator has configured on the Template Gallery Filter Form, Email
Template Sorted View, and Template Gallery Properties Form.
If you try to insert an email template on a device with a smaller screen size, you'll
only see an option to search and select a template only.

Customize your email template selector filters
With the enhanced email template selector dialog, you can switch between multiple email
template views. The filters set for the email template views are available on the template
selector, and lets you to view only the relevant email templates. You can modify the filters set
for the view, but you can't save the modified filter conditions.
For example, you have a custom view, Agent email template view, with filters set to display only
the templates that have "case" in the title.
When you access the enhanced email template selector and choose Agent email template
view, the application displays only the templates with "case" in the title.
７ Note
The email templates that are displayed are filtered based on the specified email template
view filters and record.

Email template selection dialog

You can perform the following actions on the email template selection window:
Select a language.
Search for templates by title.
Modify the content for a selected template.

Legend
1. Language. Templates are loaded according to the selected language.
2. Search. Use search to find a template. Search doesn't support regular expressions and
only works when using the name of that specific template.
3. All templates. All existing templates that have been created are displayed in this window,
which you can browse and choose from.
4. Preview. When you select an email template, a preview of the template is displayed here.
The preview shows you the content so you can pick the template that best meets your
needs. After inserting an email template, you can modify the content as needed.
5. Apply template to insert the content to your email.
７ Note

If you try to insert an email template on a device with a smaller screen size, you'll only see
an option to search and select a template.

See also
Set up enhanced email
Understand the email experience
Configure the enhanced insert email template

Convert an email to a template
Article • 02/17/2025

When you've composed an email that you'd like to reuse with other customers, you can
convert it to an email template and save it for future use.

Convert an email into a template

To save an email you've composed and formatted an email message as a template,
select the downward-facing caret (v) next to Insert Template, and then select Convert to
an email template from the drop-down list.

Convert an email to a template overview
The following window will display with a list you can customize.

Legend
1. Template name. Assign your email template a detailed name you want to save for
future use.
2. Permission level. Select from Organization or Individual. More information:
Permission level for email templates

3. Category. The default for this field is set to User.
4. Language. You can display your installed language packs in this field. Language
also helps to categorize your templates.
5. Convert. Once an email is formatted, you can convert it to an email template.

View an email template
To view a complete list of all the email templates you've created:
1. Go to the Templates section on the left-hand pane.
2. Select Email templates A list of All Email Templates is displayed, which you can
edit and update.

Insert dynamic text in an email template form

Legend
1. Add data fields. When you add data fields, the template adds Record type and
Field name fields below. You can add as many data fields you want.
2. Record type. You can then customize the record types. Default is set to account.
3. Field name. You can customize the field names. Default is set to account name.
4. More Commands. The More commands

icon allows you to edit the order of

the record types using the Move Up or Move down functionality to align records
in a customized order.
5. Default text. Allows you to select the style of text for the subject and body of your
email template. If no text is selected, it will display using the default text.
6. Insert. When done this command inserts and saves your form.
７ Note
If you click in an area on the form that does not support dynamic text, it
displays Unable to insert.
For more information on creating email templates and configurations, see Create
templates for email.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Create a signature for emails
Article • 04/10/2023

Email signatures are an important and valuable tool for users. Email signatures are like
electronic business cards you include when you send an email, and can promote
professional branding for your company.

Add text to an email signature
Adding an email signature is easy and can be done at any point while you are
composing an email. You can either add an email signature with static or dynamic text.
Dynamic placeholders are used to define dynamic text. The placeholders are replaced
with the corresponding values of the email's sender, specified in the From field.

Add an email signature
On the command bar, select Insert Signature.
From the drop-down list, select an existing signature or select New Email
Signature.

Based on the email's sender specified in the From field, one of the following actions
occur:
If the sender is a user, the dynamic placeholders defined in the email signature
template are replaced with the values corresponding to the user.
If the sender is set to a queue and the queue's owner is a user, the dynamic
placeholders defined in the email signature template are replaced with the values
corresponding to the queue's owner.
If the sender is set to a queue and the queue's owner is a team, the dynamic
placeholders are replaced with the values corresponding to the team's

administrator.

Create an email signature
You can quickly create an email signature at any point while you are composing an
email.

Create a new email signature
You can add a new email signature by:

1. Details in this section, enter the name of the email signature.
2. Signature editor. This allows you to create your email signature and Save when
finished.
７ Note
You can include inline images, such as a business logo, in email
signatures, as long as they are under 1 MB in size. However, the inline

image might not render properly if you open the email in the Outlook
Desktop app.
You can add only those fields as dynamic placeholders that are linked to
the Record type user.
Signatures can also be created and used for queues.

Manage email signature lists
You can view and manage email signatures you have created to make edits, change
default, and who can view your signatures.

Legend
1. Under Templates select Email signatures.
2. My Email Signatures list displays, showing all your email signatures you can edit
and update.
3. You can select a default signature for email. Only one signature per user can be set
as Is Default.
4. Email signatures can only be Viewable By the individual user.

Change the default email signature setting
While you can create multiple email signatures depending on your needs, only one can
be set as your default email.

To change your default email signature setting:

1. Select the email signature you want to set as default. This will change the
command bar to display Edit.
2. Select Edit. A new page opens, where you can update the email default setting.
While you are on this page, you can also delete one or multiple email signatures
just by selecting them.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Configure the enhanced insert email
template selection dialog
Article • 04/10/2023

Turn on the enhanced email template selection experience for apps across your
organization. If you need to, you can turn off the enhanced email template selection
dialog for a specific app. And then, the users of the app see the default email template
editor page.

Enable the enhanced email selection dialog
1. In Power Apps

, select the environment the environment that contains your

solution.
2. Select Solutions, and then select the solution in which you want to turn on the
enhanced template editing experience.
７ Note
Don't select the default solution to configure the template.
3. Select Add Existing > More > Setting.

4. On the Add existing Setting Definition pane, select the Enable the New Insert
Template Dialog option and then select Next.
5. Select Add on the Selected Setting Definition. The Enable the New Insert
Template Dialog option is added to your solution. Select Edit.
6. Set the Setting environment value option to Yes on the Edit Enable the New
Insert Template Dialog pane.

7. Select Publish All Customizations.

Disable the enhanced email selection dialog for
an app
For an app to display the default email template selection dialog, you must disable the
enhanced email template selection option. To disable the option for a specific app, you
must add the app to the Solution in which you've added the email template selection
option. Perform the following steps:
1. Go to Power Apps instance.
2. Select Solutions.
3. On the Solutions page, select the Solution in which you've added the email
template selection option.
4. Go to Add Existing > App > Model-driven app> Add existing model-driven apps
pane. Select the app for which you want to disable the enhanced insert email
template selection dialog. The app is added to the solution.
5. Select the Enable the New Insert Template Dialog option in the solution.
6. On the Edit Enable the New Insert Template Dialog, in the Setting app value
section, the selected app is displayed.

7. Select New app value for the app, and select No for the specified app.
8. Select Save and Publish All Customizations.

See also
How to create an email template in model-driven apps
Customize an email template using the template editor

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use sensitivity labels in emails
Sensitivity labels help classify and protect business data. When you send or receive emails in apps
such as Dynamics 365 Customer Service or Dynamics 365 Contact Center, these labels help
enforce your organization's security and compliance policies. They protect sensitive information,
help prevent accidental sharing, and ensure that attachments and replies retain the appropriate
level of protection.

How sensitivity labels work in your emails
You can apply a sensitivity label to an email in the following ways:
From the Inbox in Copilot Service workspace, select an email. In the preview pane, select
the Sensitivity label dropdown in the Command bar to choose a label.
From the email editor, when composing a new email or replying to an existing one. To
choose a label, select the Sensitivity label dropdown in the command bar.
For an incoming email, the sensitivity label applied by the sender is displayed in the email header.
When you compose or respond to emails, the following actions apply:
If you apply labels such as Do Not Forward or Do Not Reply to an email, the corresponding
actions are automatically restricted for email recipients within the organization.
When you reply to or forward an email that has a sensitivity label, the system automatically
applies the same label to your email. You can’t change the current label to a less restrictive
label. For example, if the original email is labeled Confidential, you can’t change it to
General.
Your organization can have a default sensitivity label configured. The default label is
automatically applied when you start composing a new email in the email editor.
Based on your organization's configurations, you can't send or save an email until you apply
the required sensitivity label.
When you add an attachment to an email, the attachment retains its existing sensitivity
label. If there's a conflict between the attachment and email labels, the email displays a
message indicating which label takes precedence. Displaying this message helps ensure that
the entire message is classified consistently.

Work with encrypted emails

Some sensitivity labels apply encryption to emails, which means only authorized recipients can
read them.
When a customer sends an encrypted email, users can see that the email exists in the case
timeline. The application doesn't display the encrypted message content.
To view the message, users are redirected to Outlook on the web, where the email can be
decrypted and opened securely.
７ Note
Dataverse doesn't decrypt or store encrypted email content.
Encrypted emails:
Appear in the timeline
Must be viewed through Outlook on the web
The following features don't support encrypted emails:
Case summaries
Case enrichment
Intent detection
Other AI-driven workflows
７ Note
Copilot features that rely on email content for AI-generated insights aren't available for
encrypted email content unless the content is decrypted outside the application.

Related information
Configure sensitivity label support for emails

Last updated on 07/29/2026

Explore data on a grid page
In model-driven apps, the default control that's used to show data in tabular form is the readonly grid. When a subarea contains a table, the subarea's default layout in the app sitemap is
called the grid page.

Legend:
1. Command bar: The commands available for the page
2. View selector: Select to change views
3. Edit columns: Select to add, remove, or reorder columns
4. Edit filters: Select to filter the view with advanced queries
5. Filter by keyword or Quick find: Show only the rows in the current view that match your
search criteria
6. Row counter: Shows total number of rows

Command bar
The command bar provides quick access to various commands and actions within an application.

View selector

The view selector lists the views that are available for the table. By default, the list is divided into
two groups:
My Views: Personal views that you created
System Views: Views that your administrator created and shared with you

Personal views are listed before system views by default. Both lists are sorted alphabetically. You
can change the order the views are listed in.
７ Note
If your administrator has turned on the modern advanced find experience, the list of views
isn't divided. To easily tell which kind of view you're looking at, personal views have a user
icon

. You can also hover over the information icon

to see the view type.

To quickly find a view in a long list, use the search box at the top of the view selector.

Every table in your app has a default view that's set by your administrator. The Default label in
the view selector identifies which view is the default for the table.

Column editor
Use the column editor to add, remove, or reorder columns.

Filter editor
Use the filter editor to see or modify the query that selected the records in the view.

Grid search
Grid search enables you to filter the current view based on a keyword. When you choose the
search box, an information tooltip appears to indicate the list of columns on which a begins-with
match is applied.

The search box can offer two different experiences, depending on how your administrator has
configured search.
７ Note
If your app is configured to be offline by default, the search box will utilize Quick find
regardless of the grid search configuration in place.

Filter by keyword

Filter by keyword is the default experience. When you enter text in the Filter by keyword box,
the system filters the current view. It displays the results in the same columns that are used in the
current view.

Quick find
If your administrator has turned on quick find, then the search box shows Quick find. When you
enter text in the Quick find box, the system filters the table's quick find view. It displays the
results in the columns of the quick find view rather than the current view.
７ Note
Grid search keywords that begin with an asterisk (*) will display a warning informing you that
the search might be slower. If your administrator has turned on the Prevent slow keyword
filter for quick find terms on view pages setting, then you cannot perform a search on
keywords that begin with an asterisk (*).

Find and visualize data
Find data with AI and visualize data with AI using the natural language text input box.

Row counter
Row counter displays the total number of rows and indicates infinite scrolling on the page. This is
the default view available.

Record counter
Record counter shows the position of the current page of records within the total number of
records in the view. This is typically shown as a record counter, such as "Records 21-40 of 100". To

view the record counter, your administrator must enable the settings.

Page navigation
Page navigation allows you to move forward or backward by page in the set of records shown in
the view and see the position of each page within the total dataset. To view the page navigation,
your administrator must enable the settings.

Jump bar
The jump bar is a quick way to filter out records based on letters of the alphabet. To see only
records that start with the letter S, for instance, select S in the jump bar.
The jump bar acts on the first sorted column. If the sort order hasn't changed, the jump bar uses
the primary column. To view the jump bar, your administrator must enable the settings.

Column header actions
Dropdown column headers provide various options to let you modify the data shown in the grid.

Sorting
You can modify the order of records in the grid using the sorting actions in the dropdown
column headers. By default, selecting to sort by a column replaces any existing sorting criteria on
the grid.
７ Note

Multi-column sorting can be accomplished by holding the Shift key when you select a sort
on a different column. This adds the sort condition to the existing sorting criteria on the grid,
instead of replacing the sorting criteria.

Filtering
To focus on records that meet particular criteria, you can filter a view by one or more columns.
The type of data in the column determines the available filter options.
） Important
In Unified Interface, grids don't pre-populate column filters based on the current view
definition.

７ Note
Filtering isn't supported on virtual entities. The grid filter's look-up list is limited to 100
results.

Filter by multiple values
Use multiselect filtering for more column types, including text-based columns such as Name and
Phone Number. Lookup, multiselect choice, and party-list lookup columns already support
selecting multiple values. In supported column filter dropdowns, select more than one value at a
time. The grid returns all records that match any of the values you select, so you can narrow a
view to several categories at once without applying multiple separate filters.

Filtering on a lookup column
When you filter data on a lookup column, you can select from a list of values, rather than typing.
For example, to filter a view by Primary Contact, you can select a name from the list that appears
when you select the filter text box.
If you start typing, the filter suggests matching results to help you complete the search. The
results include all rows that aren't otherwise filtered out.

Filtering on a date column
When you filter on a date column, you can select from many different ways to specify a date or a
time frame. For example, you can search On or after an exact date, Next fiscal year, or Last week.

Filtering activities
Use the activity type filter to show only the activities you're interested in, such as appointments
or email.

Grouping
When configured, the dropdown column headers surface a Group by option. This allows you to
group the data in the grid by values in the selected group.
Grouping is available for most kinds of columns. This notably doesn't include lookup
columns.
When grouping on date fields, you need to choose a timeframe to on which to group. This
includes day, week, month, quarter, and year.
You can only group by one column at a time; selecting Group by on a different column
replaces any existing grouping criteria.

You can remove the grouping by selecting Ungroup from the same dropdown column
header to remove the grouping.
７ Note
Grouping criteria isn't saved to a view. Grouping is not supported on nested grids or when
paging on the grid is allowed.

Aggregation
When configured, the dropdown column headers surface a Totals option in numeric columns.
This allows you to surface an aggregate calculation in the grid footer for the data in this column.
You can choose between showing a sum, the maximum value, the minimum value, or the average
value. If the data in the grid has been grouped, the aggregate is calculated and displayed for
each group.
７ Note
Aggregations aren't saved to a view.

Show as
While the default read-only grid is initially used to show data, if multiple dataset controls are
configured for the table view, you can switch between these controls using the Show as menu in
the command bar, which is typically found under the More commands action. Once you've
switched to a different display of the data, that control is remembered for future sessions on that
device.

Last updated on 08/10/2026

Create and manage personal views on a
grid page
Article • 03/08/2024

In model-driven apps, views define the data that's displayed in tabular form on a grid
page. System views are views that are created by your administrator and shared with
you. You typically can't modify them. However, you can create and manage personal
views. Personal views are available to you only unless you share them.
A view consists of the following elements:
The columns to display
Default sorting options
Filters to show rows that match specific criteria, if needed
） Important
To ensure proper functionality of all views, it's recommended to create all views
with the View designer in the maker portal or the Edit filters panel in the view page.
Custom views imported from solutions can include invalid fetchXML and might not
be supported.
For more information, see Understand model-driven app views.

Select columns in the column editor
1. Select Edit columns to remove, reorder, or add columns to get a clearer view of
your data.
2. Select Apply to see your changes on the grid page.

The following actions are available in the column editor:

To remove a column, hover over the column name, select …, and then select
Remove.
To change the order of the columns, select …, and then select Move up or Move
down. Or, drag the column to the desired position in the list.
To add columns to the view, select Add columns, and then do one or more of the
following:
Select a column from the default set of system columns in the table.
Select Default, then select All or Custom, and then select from the set of
columns in the table.
Type a column name in the Search box to find a specific column, and then select
it.

To add columns from other tables, select the Related tab. Expand the table that
contains the column you want to add, and then select the column. When you're
done adding columns, select Close.

To undo changes to the view's columns at any time, select Reset to default.

Select filter conditions in the filter editor
Use the filter editor to view or change the query that underlies the data in the current
view.

Edit or delete a condition
To change a condition, select the column, operator, or value and edit as needed.
To remove a condition, select More commands (…) next to the row, and then select
Delete.

Add conditions
1. To add one or more conditions, select Add.
2. When you're finished editing the view filters, select Apply to see your changes on
the grid page.
The following options are available when you add conditions in the filter editor:

To add a condition, select Add row, and then select a column, an operator, and a
value.

If you're adding a condition to a column with lookups, you can look up the record
in the Value field. In the lookup drop-down menu, you can choose Advanced
lookup to see more fields and search for records within a specific view.

To add a group of conditions, select Add group. You can create multiple
subconditions and group them using AND and OR operators to create an
expression.

To add a single condition to a group, select the condition checkbox, then select …,
and then select Make group.
To separate a group of conditions, select the group's checkbox, then select …, and
then select Ungroup.

To add a condition based on a column in a related table, select Add related entity,
and then select a table. Contains data is the only conditional operator that can be
used with a related table in a view filter. Then, select a column in the related table,
an operator, and a value.

To undo changes to the view filter at any time, select Reset to default.
 Tip
If you have the security privilege Enable Download Fetch XML, found under
Miscellaneous Privileges section of the Customization tab within the security role
definition page, you can download the FetchXML expression for a view. Contact
your administrator if you need this capability.

Sort the data
Select a column heading, and then select how the view should sort data in the column.
You can sort on one column at a time.
Sorting options depend on the type of data. Alphanumeric columns can be sorted in A
to Z (ascending) or Z to A (descending) order. Date columns can be sorted in older to
newer (ascending) or newer to older (descending) order. An arrow to the right of the
column name indicates the view is sorted on that column. The direction the arrow is
pointing indicates whether the column is sorted in ascending or descending order.

Edit column width

If your administrator has turned on modern advanced find, you can drag the vertical
column separator bar to change the minimum width of a column. When you change the
width of a column, as asterisk appears beside the view name to indicate that you edited
the view and haven't saved it. See Save your edits to as a new view to learn more about
different options to save a view.
 Tip
Since the column width edits change the minimum width of the column, you might
see column widths getting adjusted after the view is saved, to fill the available
horizontal screen space.

Save your view
An asterisk beside the view name indicates you edited the view and haven't saved it. If
you switch to another view or leave the page, the view will revert to its original
definition. To keep your changes and add the new view to the list of views available to
you, be sure to save it.

Save your edits as a new view
To keep the original view, save your edited version as a new view with a different name.
If you made changes to a view you don't have Write permission to, whether it's a system
view or a personal view, then you can only save it as a new view.
1. On the command bar, select More commands (⁝) > Create view > Save as new
view.

2. Enter a new name for the view, and a description if you like, and then select Save.

７ Note
If you want to keep the original view, be sure to give your edited view a different
name. If you don't, your changes will overwrite the existing view without
confirmation, even though you selected to save it as a new view.

Change the definition of an existing view
If you don't want to keep the original view, you can replace it with your edited version.
You'll need Write permission to the view to overwrite the original definition with your
changes.
On the command bar, select More commands (⁝) > Create view > Save changes to
current view.

Save changes to views in modern advanced find
If your administrator has turned on modern advanced find, you can create and manage
views directly from the view selector.

Change the default view
The default view for a table is indicated by the Default label in the view selector. Your
administrator sets a default view for each table in your app. However, you can set a
different view as your personal default.
In the following example, the administrator set the view My Active Accounts as the
default for the Accounts table. To change your default view to Active Accounts:
1. In the view selector, select Active Accounts to apply the view to the grid page.
2. Open the view selector again and select Set current view as my default.

To change your personal default view back to the view that was set by your
administrator, select Reset default view in the view selector.

７ Note

If you don't see Reset default view, it means the current default view for the table
is the one set by the administrator.

Change the default view in modern advanced find
If your administrator has turned on modern advanced find, you can change and reset
the default view directly from the view selector.

Manage and share personal views
If your administrator has turned on modern advanced find, you can share, hide, rename,
and delete views.
1. In the view selector, select Manage and share views.

2. Select View commands (…) and then choose your option.

Change the order of views in the view selector
By default, the view selector lists views in two groups, personal views and system views,
each ordered alphabetically. You can change the sort order within groups, or remove the
grouping entirely and order the entire list alphabetically.
1. In the view selector, select Manage and share views.
2. Change the view selector sort order, and then select Apply.

The following sorting options are available:
Personal before system, A to Z: This is the default. Both groups are ordered
alphabetically. Personal views appear above system views.
System before personal, A to Z: Both groups are ordered alphabetically. System
views appear above personal views.
A to Z: The grouping is removed. All views (system and personal) are presented in
alphabetical order.
７ Note
If your administrator has turned on the modern advanced find experience,
the list of views isn't divided. To easily tell which kind of view you're looking
at, personal views have a user icon
icon

. You can also hover over the information

to see the view type.

Hide views
You can hide views in the view selector to personalize the list and reduce clutter. You
should keep some things in mind:
When you hide a view, it's hidden from that table's views in all model-driven apps
on all devices.
If the view is shared with you and other team members, hiding it only hides the
view for you. It's not hidden for everyone else who has access to the view.
You can hide your personal views by default. You can hide system views only if the
administrator has allowed it.

You can't hide a table's default view. If you want to hide the default view, set
another view as the default first.
You can't set a hidden view as the default view for a table.
To hide a view:
1. In the view selector, select Manage and share views.
2. Hover over the view and select Hide. Or, select View commands (…) to the right of
the view, and then select Hide.
3. Select Apply.

To restore a hidden view:
1. In the view selector, select Manage and share views.
2. Hover over the view and select Show. Or, select View commands (…) to the right
of the view, and then select Show.
3. Select Apply.

Other view management tasks
Set as default: Makes a view the default view for that table across all model-driven
apps in the environment. This option doesn't appear on a hidden view or on a view
that's already the default.
Reset default: Changes the default view of a table back to what the administrator
set, across all model-driven apps in the environment.
Share: Shares the view with other members of your organization. This option
appears only on personal views that you have Share permission to. For more
information, see Share rows with a user or team.
Edit info: Change the view name and description. This option appears only on
personal views that you have Write permission to.
Assign: Assigns ownership of the view to another user or team in your
organization. This option appears only on personal views that you own.
Delete: Deletes the view. If you delete a personal view, the view is deleted for
everyone who has access to it. This option appears only on personal views you
have Delete permission to.
Deactivate/Activate: Deactivates or activates the view. If you deactivate or activate
a personal view, the view becomes inactive or active for everyone who has access
to it. This option appears only on personal views you have Write permission to.

Download Fetch XML: Download the FetchXML expression for the view. This
capability is enabled by an administrator with the security privilege Enable
Download Fetch XML, found under Miscellaneous Privileges section of the
Customization tab within the security role definition page.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

FAQs and known issues about grids and
views
Article • 10/14/2022

[This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]

How many levels of related table columns can I
add to a view using the column editor?
You can add one level of related table columns using the column editor (Edit columns)
on a grid page.

How many levels of related table columns can I
add to nested conditions in a view using the
filter editor?
You can add up to 10 levels of related table conditions using the filter editor (Edit filters)
on a grid page.

Known issues
If you change the default display format for number, currency, time, or date and
then filter data on a grid, the filter won't show your selected display format. The
filters are still displayed in the system default format. In some cases, filtering might
not work at all.
To fix the issue, set the display format for number, currency, time, and date back to
the default setting.
1. In the upper-right corner, select the gear icon

, and then select

Personalization Settings.
2. On the Formats tab, change the number, currency, time, and date value back
to the default setting.

We're working to correct this issue. Check here for updates.
The advanced filter option on the Queues table doesn't work and displays this
error message: We are unable to display the filter conditions for this view.
Public views that include Contains data or Does not contain data filters don't
appear in the list of saved views in legacy advanced find.
When you open the Edit filters panel on certain Activity tables, you will see a
condition filtering tables that are not valid for Unified Client. These conditions may
not be a part of the FetchXML of the view.
When you choose the Search for rows in a table using advanced filters option or
the Advanced find button

when working in a Dynamics 365 - Custom app with

a modern, advanced find experience enabled, you might see a loading spinner
appear indefinitely.

See also
Explore data in a view on a grid page
Create and manage personal views on a grid page
Advanced find

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

View and manage records in focused view
09/15/2025

Focused view allows you to view and manage account, contact, lead, opportunity, and other
records and their associated activities on one page. This view makes it easier for you to stay
focused on your tasks and reduces the need to navigate between multiple screens. It also
allows you to better organize and prioritize your tasks, thus saving time and effort.
Focused view is now available for all entities, including custom entities. However, your
administrator must enable it for you to access it. More information: Enable focused view and
set it as the default view.
７ Note
Focused view is similar to the sales accelerator workspace view. Learn how to
prioritize your sales pipeline through work lists.
To view the latest updates and features of focused view, you must opt in for early
access updates. Contact your administrator to enable early access updates for you.
More information: Opt in to early access updates.

Open the focused view
Focused view is a centralized place to view all your open records that have activities that are
due or pending, without having to navigate through multiple screens. By default, the lead
entity grid opens in focused view. However, an administrator must enable and set other entities
such as Account, Contact, Opportunity, and custom as default. More information: Enable
focused view and set it as the default view.
From the sitemap, select an entity such as lead, account, contact, or opportunity. The entity
grid opens in the focused view.
If you open an entity grid in the focused or list view and then close it within the same view, the
application will remember to open the grid in the same view when you access it the next time.
For example, if you open the Account entity grid in the focused view and then close it, the next
time you open the Account entity grid, it will open in the focused view.
７ Note

Focused view is now available for the Activities entity. However, you must opt in for early
access features.

Understand the focused view
The following image is an example of focused view for the Lead entity:

Focused view is categorized into the following sections.
1. Switch view and command bar:
Switching a View: This action allows you to change from the focused view to the list
view. To do this, select the Read Only Grid option. The Read Only Grid option is
only available if you have one control for the entity. If you have multiple controls,
the Show As option is displayed instead. Select Show As and then choose an option
to change to the required view.
If you have opted in for early access updates, the Show As option is displayed as
first option on the command bar.
Command bar: This feature contains actions that help you perform bulk actions on
multiple records. To use it, select More options. You can then choose the records
that you want to work with and perform the required actions.
2. Work list actions:
Search, filter, and sort: These options are displayed at the top of the work list item
view. You can search, filter, and sort the records that you want to view in the list to
quickly identify only the records that you want to work with. You can also switch
between focused view and list view. The attributes available in the view are
displayed as filters and sort. These attributes include fields added through

workspace customizations in the sales accelerator, and any new fields added to the
work list card through card customization.
７ Note
The following attributes types are not supported in filter and sort—
Uniqueidentifier, related entities, and advanced filter that are created
through workspace customizations.
Filters aren't supported on mobile devices.
For lead and opportunity entities, filters might display deprecated attribute options.
To remove these filters, go to work list card customization and remove the
Predictive scoring field.
If you want to add more filters to the view, you can create an advanced filter.
Advanced filter: Create an advanced filter option using the expression builder to
refine the content displayed in the work list. You can have only one advanced
filter defined for an entity in focused view. Select Edit filters to open the
expression builder. In the expression builder, create the conditions as required
and then select Apply. When the advanced filter is applied, the filter icon is filled
with a blue color, and the advanced filter tag is displayed under the filter options.
Select multiple records: To perform bulk actions on multiple records, select the
Select multiple records option. You can choose the records that you want to work
with and then perform the required actions. On the command bar, select More
options to perform the bulk actions.
Refresh and Settings: Select More options to perform list refresh and configure the
work list card through settings.
Refresh: Select Refresh to refresh the list of records.
Customize work list card: Select Settings to customize the work list card. More
information: Customize the work list card
3. Records list: All records for the selected entity, including records with no associated
activities, are displayed in a card format. You can perform and complete the activities,
whether manual or automated, on these cards from the current date and from previous
dates. Each card displays information such as the name of the record, the primary contact
name, and the next best action.
Next best actions: These include the top two activities with the latest due date. To
complete the next best action, hover over the action and then select the action icon.

No action items: When no action items are available for the record, the record
displays information such as the name and contact details.
Predictive scoring: When predictive scoring is enabled in your organization, the list
also displays the score for that lead or opportunity at the upper-right corner of the
card. Learn more about prioritizing leads through scores and prioritizing
opportunities through scores.
4. Record details: Select a record from the work list to view its details on the same page.
When you select an entity record in the detail view page, the selected entity record is
displayed inline on the same page, keeping the work list visible. For example, selecting a
contact record within an opportunity record keeps the work list visible while displaying
the contact details.
However, when you perform certain actions such as creating a new record, composing an
email, or opening an organization chart, the view opens in full page and hides the work
list. Select the Back button to return to the actual work list record with the work list
visible.
When records are updated in the view, work list gets auto-refreshed if the entity on the
work list matches the entity form of the record. After the refresh, if the current form
record exists in the work list, the same record will remain selected else, the first record in
the work list is selected.

Customize the work list card
You can customize the work list card to display the information that you want to see. When
sales accelerator is enabled, the customizations you make here are also reflected in the sales
accelerator work list items. More information: Customize the appearance of work items in sales
accelerator
The customization that you make to the work list card is specific to the entity type. For
example, if you customize the work list card for the Lead entity, the customization is applied
only to the Lead entity. The customization isn't applied to the Account, Contact, Opportunity,
or other entities. These customizations also affect the sales accelerator workspace view.
７ Note
You need to have read permissions for the Work list user setting entity to see the Settings
icon and customize the work list card. Contact your administrator to provide the required
permissions.
1. In the focused view page, on the work list pane, select More options and then select
Settings.

2. In the Settings dialog box, select Work item appearance.

The following are the considerations to keep in mind when customizing the work list card
in focused view:
The Switch to admin mode and Lock customization options are available only for
administrators.
If the customization is disabled, contact your administrator to turn off the
customization lock.
When admin mode is turned on, you can customize work items for all users within
your organization. When turned off, you can customize work items only for yourself.
If admin mode is turned off, contact your administrator to turn it on. More
information: Lock or unlock customization for other user roles

You can't customize the action items in the work list card. Also, in preview mode, the
More options icon isn't visible to select action items that are configured in the sales
accelerator workspace view.
3. Under the Customize section, use the following options to customize:
To change the icon that appears on a work item, select the pencil icon, and then
choose one of the following options:
Record image: A photo of the contact, if one is available.
Record initials: The contact’s first and last initials.
Record type: The icon associated with the record type.
Activity type: The icon associated with the current activity on the record.
To change the content of work items, select the fields or attributes to display:
To change an existing attribute, select a different one in its place from the list.
To add an attribute in the same row, hover over an existing attribute and select
More options > Add a field. You can show up to three fields in a row.
To add an icon in the same row, hover over an existing attribute and select More
options > Add an icon. You can show up to three icons in a row.
To add a row, select the add icon (+). You can show up to four rows of
information in a work item.
To delete a field or an icon, hover over it and select More options > Remove.
７ Note
Currently, the Follow indicator option doesn't work in focused view.
To remove all customizations and restore work items to their original appearance,
select Reset to default.
The Preview section displays a preview of the work list card based on the customizations
that you make.
4. Select Save.

Auto-refresh records
Records in the work list can be refreshed automatically when they are updated. However, an
administrator must enable this feature and configure the time interval for the records to
refresh. For more information on how to configure this feature, see Automatically refresh
records.

Increase the number of records displayed in
focused view
You can configure the number of records that are displayed per page in the focused view. By
default, 50 records are displayed, but you can increase this number up to a maximum of 250.
To do so, go to your personalization settings, and under the General tab configure the Set the
number of rows shown per page in any list of rows option to increase the number of records
displayed per page in focused view. More information: Set personal options

Related information
Enable focused view and set it as default
Prioritize sales pipeline with work lists
Work with opportunities in the Kanban view
Customize work items
Focused view FAQs

Visualize data in a view with Power BI
service
Article • 03/10/2025

Create reports in the Power BI service using the data that's in a view of your modeldriven app. Power BI automatically generates the visuals for you, so you can start
exploring the data with just a few clicks.
If you're new to Power BI reports and need more information, see Reports in Power BI.
If you're using Power BI Desktop, you can also create a report using data from Dataverse
in Power BI Desktop.
７ Note
Your administrator needs to turn on the Enable Power BI quick report visualization
on a table feature setting, to use the capabilities that are covered in this topic. For
more information, see Manage feature settings.

Visualize in Power BI
1. In your model-driven app, select a table and then on the command bar, select
Visualize this view.

2. Power BI-generates visuals of the data in your view, based on the view definition.
That is, the filters acting on the view are automatically applied to the Power BI
visualization. A subset of columns that are part of the view are used to autogenerate the Power BI visuals.

The full set of view columns are available in the Power BI report to be used to
change the data you see in the report.

For more information on how you can interact with this visualization, see Visualize your
data quickly from Power Apps and Dynamics 365 apps (preview).

Licensing considerations
Anyone can use the Visualize this view feature to explore the data in a view, but to use
the full edit experience, publish reports, access reports that others have published, or
delete reports, you need a Power BI Pro license. If you don't currently have a Pro license,
you can buy a Power BI Pro license or start a free trial.

Known issues and limitations
The first time you visualize the data in a view, creating the dataset and report can
take some time. We're working to improve this performance experience.
This feature isn't supported for the Activities table due to a limitation in
generating charts.
This feature isn't supported for guest users in a tenant.
If you're building your app for mobile, Power BI dashboards aren't a recommended
choice to visualize data. Power BI dashboards are suited for larger screens, and the
small screens and form factor of mobile devices can cause usability issues with
scroll bars, filters, and more.

Feedback

Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Track your progress with dashboards
and charts
Article • 01/16/2025

A dashboard is made up of a collection of easy-to-read charts and graphs that provide
visual representation of filtered app data. The interactive charts and graphs on a
dashboard display important data that gives you a 360-degree view of your business
and helps you to understand key performance indicators (KPI).
Dashboards are available for all row types. Charts are available on the Dashboard page,
Grid page, Associated Home page, and Edit Form page.

View dashboards
There are two types of dashboards, System Dashboards and My Dashboards.

Legend:
1. My Dashboards: Personal dashboards that can only be seen by the user who
creates them. The user can also share their personal dashboard with other users if
the user has sharing privileges for their security role.
2. System Dashboards: Created by your administrator. By default, these dashboards
are visible to all users.
７ Note
When a personal dashboard is shared, the owner of the personal dashboard
needs to explicitly share any contained, personal charts or personal views
because they have separate permissions.
When a user sets a dashboard as default (via the Set as default action in the
command bar), all page navigation to dashboards will take the user to the

default dashboard, which may be a different dashboard than the named
dashboard the user selected.

Expand, refresh, and view rows

Legend:
1. Refresh: Refreshes the rows in the chart.
2. View Records: See the chart and the underlying rows together. This opens the
chart for the corresponding rows.
3. Expand Chart: Shows the chart in full screen mode. The chart is still interactive in
expanded mode.
4. Tool tips: Hover your mouse over the chart to see a tooltip that provides quick
information about that area of the chart.

Create a dashboard with charts

1. Go to Dashboards and then on the command bar select New > Dynamics 365
Dashboard.

2. Choose a layout and then select Create. This is how your dashboard displays the
charts, graphics, and numbers.

3. Type a name for the dashboard.

4. Add what you want to each area of your dashboard. For example, let's add a chart.

5. On the Add Component dialog box, select your options.
ﾉ

Options
Row Type

Select a row.

View

Select a view for the row.

Chart

Select the type of chart that you want use.

Expand table

6. When you're done adding each component, select Add.
7. Continue adding components to the dashboard. You can add up to six
components.

8. When you're done, on the command bar select Save.
9. The dashboard that you created will appear in the drop-down menu under My
Dashboards.

Edit the properties of a chart
When you add a chart on a dashboard, you can edit the chart properties and modify the
chart view and display options. The following screenshot shows how a chart will display
based on the chart properties that you selected.

Legend:
1. View title with View Selector turned off. You can't toggle between different views.
You only see the title.
2. Chart title with Display Chart Selection turned off. You can't toggle between
different charts for the table. You only see the title.
3. Only View Selector is turned on. You can toggle to a different view and the chart
will render based on the underlying data for the selected view.
4. Both View Selector and Display Chart Selection is turned on. You can toggle to a
different view and chart for the table.
To edit the chart properties, you need to edit the dashboard that the chart is in. If you're
in the process of adding a new chart on a dashboard, then you're already in edit mode
and can skip to step 2.
1. Go to the dashboard that the chart is in and on the command bar, select Edit.

2. Double-select the chart that you want to edit.

3. On the Set Properties dialog box, select a View Selector option.
Off: Don't show view selector, show the view title only.
Show All Views: Show the view selector on chart and display all views in the
view selector.
Show Selected Views: Show the view selector on chart and display only the
selected views in the view selector.

4. Once View Selector is turned on, you can select different views to see how the
chart renders with different data associated with the view.

5. Select the Display Chart Selection check box to show the chart selector. When
chart selector is enabled, you can toggle to a different chart for the table and see
different visualizations of the data. If the box is unchecked, then you only see the
chart title.

6. When you're done, select OK.

Drill-down in a chart
You can drill down into a segment on a chart and filter the data for that segment. For
example, you can drill down on one segment of a chart and change the chart type as
you drill down.
The chart drill-down feature is only available on the browser. It isn't available on the
mobile app for phones or tablets.
In the following example, let's further drill-down into the chart.
1. Select a data point on the chart to open the Drill down by dialog box.

2. Select the drop-down menu and choose how you want to group the data.

3. Select the type of chart that you want to see the drill-down data in.

4. The chart with the drilled-down data will show. The breadcrumbs at the top show
the filter criteria of the drill-down data. You can select the breadcrumbs to go back
home or to the previous screen.

You can continue drilling further into the chart data. As you drill down deeper, the
breadcrumbs will expand and you can go back to the previous screen or select the
Home button to go back to the Home screen.

Known issues
In the chart designer, adding an order on certain calculated columns isn't
supported and will cause an error. The calculated columns causing this are using
other calculated columns, a related table column, or a local column on the table.
Chart displays zero values when there's no data. With Unified Interface for modeldriven apps you can still select a chart with zero value and drill down in to the
data. More information: Chart displays zero values when there's no data
By design, charts in rollup column can't be displayed because rollup columns
contain an aggregate value computed over the rows related to a specified row.
Chart drill-down functionality isn't available on charts in a subgrid or an associated
grid.
When you add a list control to a dashboard and switch the control to the Power
Apps Read-Only grid control, you'll see a blank tile on the dashboard because the
Power Apps Read-Only grid control isn't supported on dashboards. We
recommend that you use Power Apps grid control.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

View charts on a page or in a row
Article • 10/14/2022

You can view charts on a page that has a list of rows. You can also open a row and view
a chart in the row.
Only an administrator can add charts to a row. For information, go to Add a chart to a
form.

View charts on a page
1. On the left navigation pane, select a page.
2. On the command bar, select Show Chart.

3. Select the drop-down menu to choose a view.

4. Select the chart view drop-down menu to choose between a system or personal
view.
My Charts: Personal charts that can only be seen by the user who created the
chart. The user can also share their personal chart with other users if the user
has sharing privileges for their security role.
System Charts: Created by your administrator. By default, these charts are
visible to all users.

Commands on a chart view
Use the More Commands button

to access commands such as create a new chart,

import, export, and more. The chart commands options are different for system charts
and personal charts.
ﾉ

Expand table

Commands on my (personal) charts

Commands on system charts

Grid filter on charts
Grid home page provides multiple filter options for a user to filter the grid data such as
quick find, advanced find, grid column filter, and jump bar. For more information, go to
How to use grid filters.
When a chart is shown together with grid, the grid filter option that you select will filter
both chart and grid.

Legend:

1. Sort: Sorts rows. Use Filter by to filter both grid and chart data based on the filter
criteria.
2. Open advanced filtering panel: See which filters were applied to the current view.
For more information, go to Create and manage personal views on a grid page.
3. Search this view: Search for data in the view you're in.
4. Jump bar: The page jump bar uses the first sorted column. If no change has been
made to the sort order, the jump bar uses the primary column.

Drill-down in the chart data
You can drill down into a segment on a chart and filter the data for that segment. When
a chart is shown together with grid, the drill-down option that you select will filter both
chart and grid as shown in this illustration.

７ Note
Chart drill-down functionality is not available on charts in a subgrid or an
associated grid.
For more information on how to use the drill-down feature, go to Drill-down in a chart.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use interactive dashboards to filter data
Article • 02/15/2022

Use interactive dashboards to filter and view your app data. Charts on an interactive
dashboard serve as a simple filtering source. You can select different data points on a
chart to filter data based on the filter criteria.
Interactive dashboards are system dashboards that only an admin can create. To learn
more about how to create and configure interactive dashboards, go to Create and
configure model-driven app interactive experience dashboards.
Interactive dashboards come in two forms: multi-stream and single-stream. In addition,
multi-stream dashboards can be home page or table-specific dashboards. The multistream dashboards display data in real time over multiple data streams.

The single-stream dashboards display real-time data over one stream based on a table
view. Visual filters are already applied. The tiles are positioned on the right side of the
dashboards and are always shown.

Use visual filters
Use the visual filter option to drill down into the data on the charts. This displays
information that interests you most.
1. To view an interactive dashboard, go to the list of dashboards and find the one
that has the interactive icon

next to the dashboard name.

2. On the command bar, select Show Visual Filter.

3. Select a drill-down option.

4. Select an area on one of the charts or graphs to apply a filter.

5. To clear the filter, select X next to the filter or to clear all filters, select Clear All.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Add or edit Power BI visualizations on your
dashboard
Create rich, interactive reports and real-time visualizations with Power BI dashboards and tiles
that you add to your personal dashboards.
７ Note
To add Power BI visualizations to personal dashboards in your model-driven app, you
must:
Enable Power BI visualizations for your organization in Advanced Settings > System
> Administration > Reports > Embed Power BI visuals.
Have a Power BI account and have access to at least one Power BI dashboard.
Enable third-party cookies in your browser, otherwise authentication to Power BI will
fail.

Create a personal Power BI dashboard
Follow these steps to add a Power BI dashboard to your model-driven app. If you are
connecting to the Power BI service, you need an account and to have selected your Microsoft
Dataverse instance as a data source. For more information about registering and connecting
data sources, see Microsoft Power BI

.

1. Open your app and go to Dashboards.
2. Select New and then select Power BI Dashboard.

3. In the Power BI Dashboard Properties dialog select the workspace and then select the
Power BI dashboard that you want to embed in your dashboard. Select Enable for Unified
Client if you want to make the dashboard available for Dynamics 365 for tablets and
Dynamics 365 for phones.

4. Select Save to save your dashboard.

Embed Power BI tiles on your personal dashboard
Follow these steps to add one or more Power BI tiles to your personal dashboard. If you are
connecting to the Power BI service, you need an account and to have selected your Dataverse
instance as a data source. For more information about registering and connecting data sources,
see Microsoft Power BI

.

1. Open your app and go to Dashboards.
2. Select an existing personal dashboard or select New to create one.
3. On the dashboard, select an area where you want the tile to appear, and then select
Power BI Tile on the toolbar.

4. In the Power BI Tile dialog, select the workspace and then select the Power BI tile that
you want to display on your dashboard. Select Enable for mobile if you want to make the
tile available for Dynamics 365 for tablets and Dynamics 365 for phones.

Select another area of the dashboard and repeat this step to add another Power BI tile, or
other component, such as a chart or list, to your dashboard.
5. Select Save to save your dashboard.
７ Note
If a user clicks on the title of an embedded Power BI dashboard, a modal popup will be
triggered, showing the dashboard along with Refresh and Open in Power BI actions.

Share a personal dashboard that contains Power BI
visualizations
To share your personal dashboard that contains Power BI visualizations you must configure
sharing in both Dataverse and Power BI, and the user or group must have the same credentials
and appropriate level of access in both services. To share your personal dashboard in your app
go to, Dashboards. In the list of dashboards, select the personal dashboard you want, and then
select SHARE DASHBOARD. For more information about sharing a dashboard in Power BI, see
Power BI: Share a dashboard with colleagues and others .

Privacy notice
By enabling the embedding of Power BI tiles and dashboards, when a user embeds a Power BI
tile or dashboard, that user’s Microsoft Entra ID authorization token for Microsoft Dataverse is
used to authenticate with the Power BI service with an implicit grant, providing a seamless
“single-sign on” experience for the end user.
An administrator can disable embedding of Power BI tiles and dashboards at any time to stop
use of the Dynamics 365 authorization token for authenticating with Power BI service. Any
existing tiles or dashboards will stop rendering for the end user.
The Azure component or service that is involved with embedding of Power BI tiles is detailed in
the following section.
Note: For more information about additional Azure service offerings, see the Microsoft Azure
Trust Center

.

Microsoft Entra ID
This service provides the authentication token exchanged with Power BI service for API and UI
authentication.

Last updated on 03/13/2026

Collaborate with others in model-driven
apps
Article • 10/10/2023

Collaborate with colleagues and share links in model-driven Power Apps the same way
do you as in Microsoft Office.

Multiplayer apps
When you're working on a record, you can also see other users who are working on the
same record.
You can also select a user's picture to see their online status, send them an email, or
start a Teams chat.

This feature uses the Azure Fluid Relay service, which must be available in your region.
For more information, see Azure Fluid Relay service availability

. Because this feature

uses the Azure Fluid Relay service, users must be able to access fluidrelay.azure.com.

View a user's status and picture

App users, such as the record owner, as well as the users appearing in grids and lookups
are displayed with their picture and online status. This feature is now available on all
model-driven apps and cannot be disabled.

７ Note
This feature will be extended to user lookups and grid user columns.

Share
You can now easily share records with your colleagues using the new Share button.
Select Copy link or Email link in order to send a record link to your colleagues.
７ Note
If you have the share privilege on a record and you email a record link to a
colleague, the colleague will automatically get read access to the record.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Use OneDrive for Business
Article • 02/15/2022

Create and manage private documents from within Microsoft Dataverse apps by using
OneDrive for Business. More information: What is OneDrive for Business?
Before you can use OneDrive for Business, it must be enabled by your system
administrator. More information:
Find your administrator or support person
Enable OneDrive for Business

The first time you view your documents
1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
contact row.
2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.

3. Select Document Location > OneDrive.

4. After OneDrive for Business is enabled, you'll see the following dialog box when
you go to the Documents tab to view documents in Dataverse and upload a file to
OneDrive, or when you attempt to create a new document or folder.

5. Select Change folder location to pick a new location to store OneDrive
documents, or select Continue to accept the default folder location.

View existing OneDrive documents
1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
contact row.
2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.

3. Select Document Location to filter the document list.

4. Select a location as described in the following table.
ﾉ

Expand table

Document Location

Description

OneDrive

Documents stored in OneDrive for Business

Documents on Default
Site

Documents stored in your default SharePoint site

Shared with me

Documents that others shared with you that are associated with this
row

All Locations

All document locations associated with this row

5. After you select a location, you'll see the documents saved in that location.

Create a new document and save it to
OneDrive
1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
contact row.
2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.

3. Select Document Location, and change the location to OneDrive.
4. Select New, and then choose a document type such as PowerPoint or Word.

5. Enter a document name, and then select Save.

Things to consider

Be aware of the following regarding OneDrive for Business in Dataverse:
OneDrive storage folders are created in the user's current Dataverse language. If
the language changes, new folders will be created in the new language. Old folders
will remain in the previous language.
There might be a delay between when the documents are shared in OneDrive and
when they're available to other users.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Take notes by using OneNote
Article • 02/15/2022

Use OneNote to take or review notes, ideas, plans, and research from the Document
Associated Grid view of a row in Microsoft Dataverse.
Before you can use OneNote, it must be enabled by your system administrator. More
information:
Find your administrator or support person
Set up OneNote integration

Start a new OneNote notebook
1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
contact row.
2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.

3. Select Document Location, and select the location where you want to save the
notebook. For more information, see View existing OneDrive documents.
4. Select New, and then select OneNote.

5. Enter a name for the notebook, and then select Save. A new notebook is created
and opened.

Open an existing OneNote notebook
1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
contact row.
2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.

3. Select Document Location, and select the location of your notebook. For example,
choose OneDrive if your notebook is stored on OneDrive. More information: View
existing OneDrive documents

4. Select your notebook to start adding notes.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Collaborate using SharePoint
07/15/2025

With Microsoft Dataverse, you can store your documents on SharePoint and manage them
from within your app. The documents that you create in your app are stored on SharePoint,
and are automatically synced to your desktop and mobile devices.
Before you can use SharePoint to store documents, it must be enabled by your system
administrator. More information:
Find your administrator or support person
Manage your documents using SharePoint
） Important
When you delete a SharePoint managed document using a Power Apps or Dynamics
365 customer engagement app, the app permanently deletes the document from
both the app and the SharePoint site.
When you merge records, the app doesn't merge SharePoint document libraries. The
app deactivates the subordinate record, but its SharePoint folder and documents
remain accessible unless you delete them manually.

Where do you access the documents from?
1. For row types that support document management, open the row, select the Related tab,
and then select Documents.

2. Select Document Location > Documents on Default Site 1. When SharePoint is enabled,
the location is set to Documents on Default Site 1 by default.

Create a new document and save it to SharePoint
1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a contact
row.
2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.

3. Select Document Location, and change the location to Documents on Default Site 1.
4. Select New, and then choose a document type such as Word, Excel, or PowerPoint.

5. Enter a document name, and then select Save.

Create a new folder in the default SharePoint site
location
1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a contact
row.
2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.

3. Select Document Location, and change the location to Documents on Default Site 1.
4. Select New, and then choose Folder.

5. Enter a folder name, and then select Save.

Upload an existing document to SharePoint from
your app
1. Go to the row you want to create the document for, select the Related tab, and then
select Documents.
2. Select Upload.

3. Choose the file you want to upload. You can choose only one file at a time.
The document is created in the current document location you're in.

７ Note
You can upload a file of up to 50 MB. If your internet connection is slow, you might
get an error while uploading large files.
4. If files with the same name exist in SharePoint, select whether you want to overwrite the
files.
5. Select OK.

Manage SharePoint locations
You can create new or edit existing SharePoint locations from your app in Dataverse.

Edit a location
1. Open a row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
2. Select Edit Location, and then select a SharePoint site location.
The Edit Location dialog box appears.

3. The display name, parent site, and folder name are automatically populated. Enter details
about the new location, and then select Save.

Add a new location
1. Open a row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
2. Select Add Location.

The Add Location dialog box appears.

3. The display name, parent site, and folder name are automatically populated. Change the
details if necessary, and then select Save.

Files tab FAQ
Why was the location to access documents moved?
We moved the command to make documents easier to find with fewer clicks.
Has the Documents tab gone away?
No, it hasn't gone away. Users can still access the documents associated with the row in
question the old way, simply by selecting the Related menu and then the Documents link.
With the change, will subfolders in SharePoint still be created automatically?
Yes. The behavior is similar to that of the Documents link under the Related menu. When
a user selects the Files tab for the first time, the corresponding SharePoint subfolder is
created by the system.
Is there a way to add the Files tab to other tables, or remove it?
Yes. To add or remove the Files tab, follow the steps in this article: Add the SharePoint
documents tab to the main form for a table

Use @mention to collaborate with your
team using Notes
Article • 03/21/2025

Collaborate effortlessly by mentioning your coworkers in Notes on the timeline.
The administrator must enable the @mention people when in rich text editor to add
and notify user settings in Power Platform admin center and enable in-app notifications
for the app for this capability to be available.
） Important
Users must have the Read privilege for the msdyn_postconfig entity, as well as the
Share privilege for the entity for which they use @mentions (for example, account,
contact, case, and so forth).

@mention a user in Notes
1. Open a row and go to the activity timeline on the page.
2. Add a note by selecting Enter a note.
3. In the Description field, enter @ and the first few letters of the person’s first name
to see a list of options.
4. Select the name you want.
If the user doesn't already have permission to view the row and you have the Share
privilege for the row, you're asked to provide basic read permission for the row
you're adding a note on.

Notifications
1. The notification bell icon indicates a new notification when you're @mentioned in
a note.
2. Open the notification center and select the notification to navigate to the record
on which you were mentioned.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Compare search options in Microsoft
Dataverse
Article • 04/05/2025

There are three ways to search rows in Dataverse:
Dataverse search
Quick Find (single-table or multi-table)
Advanced Find
７ Note
Multi-table Quick Find is also called Categorized Search. For a given query, the
search results from the following three options might be different due to the search
cope and search behavior.
The following table provides a brief comparison of the three options.
ﾉ

Expand table

Functionality

Dataverse search

Quick Find

Advanced Find

Enabled by

"On" state for all new

Yes, for the table grid.

Yes

default

production
environments.
"Default" state for all

No, for multiple-table
quick find (categorized
search). An

other environments.
Learn more about how
Dataverse search

administrator must
first disable Dataverse
search before

works.

multiple-table grid
find can be enabled.

Not available in a table
grid. You can filter the
search results by a

Available in a table
grid.

Available in a table grid.

There's no maximum
limit on the number of

Searches up to 10
tables, grouped by a

Multi-table search not
available.

tables you can search.

table.

Single-table
search scope

table on the results
page.
Multi-table
search scope

Functionality

Dataverse search

Quick Find

Advanced Find

Search

Finds matches to any

Finds matches to all

Query builder where you can

behavior

word in the search
term in any column in
the table.

words in the search
term in one column in
a table; however, the

define search criteria for the
selected row type. Can also
be used to prepare data for

words can be matched
in any order in the

export to Office Excel so that
you analyze, summarize, or

column.

aggregate data, or create
PivotTables to view your
data from different
perspectives.

Searchable

Text columns like

All searchable

columns

Single Line of Text,

columns.

All searchable columns.

Multiple Lines of Text,
Lookups, and Option
Sets. Doesn't support
searching in columns
of Numeric or Date
data type.
Search results

Returns the search

For single-table,

Returns search results of the

results in order of their

returns the search

selected row type with the

relevance, in a single
list.

results in a table grid.
For multi-table, returns

columns you have specified,
in the sort order you have

the search results

configured.

grouped by categories,
such as accounts,
contacts, or leads.
Wildcards (*)

Trailing wildcard

Leading wildcard

supported for word

supported. Trailing

completion.

wildcard added by
default.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Leading wildcard supported.

What is Dataverse search?
Dataverse search is the foundation that enables Copilot and in-app search experiences to
understand and process business data. It turns raw information into actionable intelligence.



Dataverse search powers global search experiences, API calls, and agents built with Copilot
Studio, including those running on Microsoft 365 Copilot and MCP tools. Beyond helping users
of model-driven apps quickly, find what they need, Dataverse search enables rich search and
AI-driven experiences across products that use Dataverse as a data source.

What type of data does Dataverse search index?
Dataverse search includes structured data (tables) and unstructured data (files).





Legend:
1. Structured data: Supports multiple experiences, including global search, Copilot for
model-driven apps, and Copilot Studio agents that use Dataverse knowledge from tables.
2. Unstructured data: Supports experiences like Copilot Studio agents that use Dataverse
knowledge from files.
Dataverse search includes three index types:
Relevance search: Powers global search and SearchQuery API.
Structured index: Enables Copilot and generative AI experiences.
Unstructured index: Enables Copilot and generative AI experiences.

The structured and unstructured indexes enable Copilot and generative AI experiences in
scenarios such as agents built with Copilot Studio, Copilot in Dynamics 365, declarative agents,
app Copilot, Copilot chat, and Dataverse MCP.

What's the value of indexed data?
Dataverse search uses indexed Dataverse data to help systems perform more efficient searches.
Indexed Dataverse data is enterprise content that's organized in a specific structure, like a data
catalog. When an agent or system uses the indexed data structure, search performance
increases based on a specific input.

Experiences enabled by Dataverse search
Dataverse search lets you use multiple features in Power Platform, including Copilot indexes.
Here are the experiences:
Microsoft Copilot Studio Agents
Add files as a knowledge source
Add Dataverse as a knowledge source
Add SharePoint as a knowledge source
Add OneDrive as a knowledge source
Agent Copilot
Dynamics 365 Copilots
Sales Copilot
Customer Service Copilot
Contact Center Copilot
Field Service Copilot
Power Apps: Model-driven apps
Copilot for app users in model-driven apps
Dataverse search
Experiences across the Power Platform
In Power Apps or Power Automate
In Microsoft Copilot Studio
Power Apps or Power Automate—custom AI prompts

Benefits of Dataverse search
1. Integration with AI and Copilot experiences: By using natural language, you can have a
conversation with your data and identify themes, patterns, and insights. This feature uses
AI technology to interpret natural language, such as misspellings, common abbreviations,
and synonyms, to deliver quality results.
2. Unified search: Dataverse search lets you quickly find content in model-driven apps and
other products that use Dataverse as a data source. It provides a better user experience
than quick find, where all words in the search term must be found in one column.
3. Efficient relevance-based results: Intelligent ranking algorithms return the most relevant
records first, with performance that's superior to categorized search. This feature reduces
time spent searching and increases accuracy.
4. Smart fuzzy search: Dataverse search handles variations in spelling and terminology, so it
doesn't depend on exact keyword matches.
5. Security and compliance: Dataverse search respects Dataverse security roles and
permissions. Users can only see search results for records that they have access to.
6. Scalability and performance: Dataverse search is optimized for large datasets and
supports multiple data types, such as Choice and Lookup.
7. Search across documents in Microsoft Dataverse: Dataverse search includes search
results for text in documents that are stored in Dataverse, such as PDF, Microsoft Office
documents, HTML, XML, ZIP, EML, plain text, and JSON file formats. It also searches text in
notes and attachments.
７ Note
Global search supports up to 2 MB of file search.

Dataverse search implications
Dataverse search is an opt-out feature. The feature is On for all new production environments
and set to Default for all other environment types. Find this setting in Power Platform admin
center
Search.

by going to Manage > Environment > Settings > Product > Features > Dataverse



In Power Platform admin center, admins can use the Dataverse Search setting to manage
search. The selected Dataverse search state affects how to use Dataverse data across the
enabled experiences for the entire organization. The following tables show how each Dataverse
search setting affects global search experiences (including SearchQuery API) and Generative AI
experiences, and how admins can use this setting to manage it.

What Dataverse search setting means for global search
When you set Dataverse search to On, the Global Search box appears at the top of every page
in your model-driven app. This search box is the default global search experience for all modeldriven apps. Learn more in Search for records by using Dataverse search.
ﾉ

Expand table

Dataverse search set to On

Dataverse search set to
Default

Dataverse Search set to Off

Search bar is visible. (Quick Find

Search bar isn't visible. (Quick

Search bar isn't visible. (Quick

isn't visible or accessible)

Find is an alternative)

Find is an alternative.)

Dataverse search is used for all
production environments

Dataverse search isn't available
for Global search in any

Dataverse search isn't available
for Global search in any

environment

environment

Dataverse data isn't indexed.
Data isn't searchable for global
search

Dataverse data isn't indexed.
Data isn't searchable for global
search

Dataverse data is automatically
indexed. Data is searchable for
global search

What Dataverse search means for generative AI enabled
experiences
Some generative AI experiences use Dataverse search data, such as Copilot chat in modeldriven applications. You can access Copilot chat through the Copilot icon in the right
navigation bar in a model-driven app. You can open or minimize the Copilot chat pane as
needed.

Power Apps: Copilot chat for model-driven apps in Power Apps is a next-generation AI
assistant that helps app users get insights about the data in their apps through
conversation in natural language.
Copilot Studio: Integrating Dataverse tables as your knowledge source allows you to
ground your agent in the data contained in your tables. This integration can also happen
by using unstructured data as knowledge or Dataverse tools.
７ Note
An enabled generative AI feature's availability isn't managed by Dataverse search itself
and is enabled through its own feature setting.

ﾉ

Expand table

Dataverse search set to On

Dataverse search set to Default

Dataverse search set
to Off

All production environments
use Dataverse search

Sandbox, Trial, Developer, Dataverse for Teams
environments use Dataverse search for

No environment uses
Dataverse search

generative AI experiences
Dataverse data is
automatically indexed and
becomes searchable

Dataverse data (tables and files) is indexed
when triggered and becomes searchable

Dataverse data isn't
indexed nor
searchable

What actions can makers or admins take to
manage Dataverse search efficiently?
Depending on the experience that uses Dataverse search and its usage, consumption size can
increase. The following recommendations help you optimize storage consumption for efficient
and value-added output, from granular and less impactful actions (data level) to broader and
more impactful actions (environment level).
７ Note
While one action helps optimize the amount of indexed data within a specific feature,
other enabled features might trigger index provisioning. For more impactful approaches,
go through all the steps, in order of recommendation, or consider turning off features in
the Power Platform admin center.

Data level
To manage the search index at the data level, review each table and each column to confirm
that search is needed. If not, take the following actions:

Global Search: Break down tables into multiple columns
Why this helps?
Indexed data includes structures like inverted indexes, metadata, and pointers to enable fast
search and retrieval. These components add overhead beyond the raw data and can
significantly increase storage requirements compared to the original dataset.

How to implement?
Ensure the data is consistently formatted across records to increase repetitiveness of
words and reduce the number of indexes.
By breaking down the data across multiple columns, you can be more specific about
which data to search over.

Global Search: Only select columns that need to be searchable
Why this helps?
Dataverse search has default selected columns. By default, certain columns like Primary Name
and ID are indexed for all tables. These columns are part of the 50 fields indexed by default and
don't count toward the limit for every table. Enable columns for Dataverse search only if a
Quick Find view is set as the default view for the table. For more information, see Managing
Dataverse search.

How to unselect tables that aren't used so that they're not indexed or
searchable
1. Sign in to Power Apps

.

2. On the left navigation pane, select Solutions.
3. Choose the solution you want to modify, and then select Edit in the command bar.
4. On the Objects page, in the navigation pane, select Overview.
5. In the Dataverse search pane, select Manage search index.
6. Review the tables that are indexed.
7. Unselect the tables, and then select Save.

How to unselect columns that aren't used so that they're not indexed
or searchable
1. Sign in to Power Apps

.

2. On the left navigation pane, select Tables.
3. On the Tables page, select the table you want to edit.
4. In the Data experiences pane, select Views.
5. From the list of views, select the Quick Find view type. For example, select Quick Find
Active Accounts.
6. Edit View columns.
7. Go to the columns you want to remove, and select Remove in the dropdown menu.
8. Select Save and Publish to publish the changes to the view.

Copilot Studio: Ensure specific Dataverse tables or files are added to
Copilot Studio agent's knowledge
Why this helps?
When you add a Dataverse tool or knowledge, such as Dataverse MCP, Dataverse table, or file
to a Copilot Studio agent, the process automatically indexes all the underlying Dataverse data
for efficient, semantically relevant searches. Reducing knowledge and tools to only the
necessary content helps indexing processing and storage consumption and increases search
quality.

How to remove unnecessary content or imagery, or tables from files
File Upload, OneDrive, and SharePoint upload: Remove files that aren't needed for
search from the agent's knowledge base. You might want to consider removing pages,
sheets, or any accessory data point from the files themselves.
OneDrive and SharePoint upload: Select only the files or folders you need instead of
selecting nested folders.

How to remove Dataverse tables or files from Copilot studio agent’s
knowledge
In the Overview or Knowledge tabs on a Copilot Studio agent, go to the Knowledge section
and select the dot menu for each of the Dataverse-enabled knowledge sources, and then select
Delete. Use the same instructions for the following knowledge sources:
Dataverse Tables
Files you upload

OneDrive files
SharePoint files (from upload)
７ Note
The same process applies to Dataverse MCP tools, but you complete it in the Tools section
(instead of the Knowledge section).

App or agent level
To manage the search index at the app or agent level, review the purpose and usage of each
application and agent to confirm search is needed. If not, take the following actions:

Copilot for Power Apps: Specify which applications you'd like Copilot to
be enabled for
Why this helps?
Copilot in model-driven apps uses AI to interpret natural language queries and generates
suggestions or actions based on the app's underlying Dataverse data. In some situations,
applications don't require enhanced search through Copilot, so managing Copilot at an app
level can help control consumption.

How to turn off Copilot feature for each model-driven application
1. In the app designer, open the model-driven app for editing.
2. Select Settings from the command bar.
3. On the Settings screen, select Upcoming.
4. Select the Copilot control setting, and set it to Off.
5. Select Save and Publish to apply your changes.

Copilot for Dynamics 365 Apps: Specify which applications you'd like
Copilot to be enabled for
Why this helps?
Just like model-driven applications in Power Apps, Copilot in model-driven apps uses AI to
interpret natural language queries and generate suggestions or actions based on the app's

underlying Dataverse data. In some situations, applications don't require that level of enhanced
search through Copilot. Managing Copilot at an app level can help with consumption control.

How to turn off Copilot feature for each Dynamics 365 application
1. In the Sales Hub app, change the area by using the option in the lower-left corner of the
page.
2. Select App Settings to open sales setting.
3. Select Copilot > Edit settings > Advanced settings, which opens a new Copilot in
Dynamics 365 Sales page.
4. Select Individual apps.
5. Select desired app and turn the setting to Off.

How to turn off Copilot feature for all Dynamics 365 application
1. In the Sales Hub app, change the area by using the option in the lower-left corner of the
page.
2. Select App Settings to open sales setting.
3. Select Copilot > Edit settings > Advanced settings, which opens a new Copilot in
Dynamics 365 Sales page.
4. Select All Apps and turn the setting to Off.
The other way to turn off Copilot feature for all apps is as follows:
1. In the Sales Hub app, change the area by using the option in the lower-left corner of the
page.
2. Select App Settings to open sales settings.
3. Select Copilot > Edit settings.
4. Select Off from the Copilot dropdown, which opens a dialog box.
5. Select Continue, and then save your changes.

Environment level
To manage the search index at the environment level, admins can review the purpose and
usage of each application and agent, as well as global search to confirm that search is needed.
If not, admins can take the following actions:

Global search is disabled while Copilot experiences are enabled
Why this helps?

When Dataverse search is set to Default, the global search experience isn't enabled on the
navigation of the model-driven apps or Dynamics 365. This setting means that users can't
query global search, and data marked as "searchable" for the exclusive purpose of global
search isn't indexed. However, Dataverse data might still be indexed for other experiences,
such as Copilot in model-driven applications or Copilot Studio agents.

How to change Dataverse search to Default value
1. In Power Platform admin center, go to Manage > Environments.
2. Select the environment, and then select Settings.
3. Select Product > Features.
4. Change Dataverse search to Default.
5. Select Save.
７ Note
For organizations that want to search in these applications and don't need relevancebased search, they can enable Quick Find.

Copilot for Power Apps and Dynamics 365 apps is disabled while global
search is anabled
Why this helps?
Copilot in Power Apps uses Dataverse indexed data to quickly retrieve and interpret relevant
records when responding to natural language queries within the model-driven app. The
semantic indexes enable efficient search across tables and relationships, allowing Copilot to
provide accurate suggestions and automate actions based on the underlying data context. For
organizations that don't want Copilot to be used with their model-driven applications, admins
can turn off the feature at an environment level.

How to turn off the Copilot setting in Power Platform admin center
1. In Power Platform admin center, go to Manage > Environments.
2. Select the environment, and then select Settings.
3. Select Product > Features.
4. Turn the toggle and the set the dropdown to Off:

Dataverse search isn't needed for the environment

Why this helps?
At any time, you can manually set Dataverse to Off. If you set Dataverse search to "Off" for the
environment, all users of features, apps, or agents of the environment can't use the search
capability in the Power Apps navigation bar or any generative AI experience that relies on
Dataverse, like uploaded files or using OneDrive or SharePoint files (via upload) in Microsoft
Copilot Studio agents, among other experiences.

How to turn off Dataverse search for the environment
1. In Power Platform admin center, go to Manage > Environments.
2. Select the environment, and then select Settings.
3. Select Product > Features.
4. Change Dataverse search to Off. This change opens a dialog box. Acknowledge the
impact of turning off Dataverse search, write the name of the environment, and select
Turn Off:
5. Select Save.
７ Note
Turning off Dataverse search deprovisions and removes the index within a period of
12 hours. If you turn on Dataverse search after it's been off for 12 hours, it provisions
a fresh index that needs to go through a full sync. Syncing might take up to an hour
or more for average size organizations, and a couple of days for large organizations.
Be sure to consider these implications when you turn off Dataverse search
temporarily. Configure Dataverse search for your environment
Index removal (or provisioning) can take multiple days to be completed, depending
on the amount of Dataverse search consumption. For example, an organization with
10 GB of indexed data might take one day to clean up all indexes, while an
organization with 500 GB might take multiple days to see it reflected in Dataverse
search reporting. Give a few days or a week before submitting a support ticket, to
ensure a complete removal of Dataverse search indexed data.

What happens when you turn off Dataverse
search?
ﾉ

Expand table

Feature

Maker experience

End user experience

Microsoft Copilot
Studio Agent –

You can't upload files or select Dataverse
tables. The agent doesn't provide results that

The agent doesn't provide results
that rely on this indexed data until

Add Knowledge

rely on this indexed data until Dataverse
search is enabled for the environment. Ask

Dataverse search is enabled for the
environment. The agent uses the

the environment's admin to enable Dataverse

fallback answer by default.

search.
Microsoft Copilot

The agent doesn't provide results that rely on

The agent doesn't provide results

Studio Agent –
Using Copilot

this indexed data until Dataverse search is
enabled for the environment. Ask your

that rely on this indexed data until
Dataverse search is enabled for the

Chat

environment admin to enable Dataverse
search.

environment. By default, the agent
uses a fallback answer.

Model Driven

The search bar isn't visible in model-driven

The search bar isn't visible in

Applications –
Dataverse search

apps.

model-driven apps.

See also
Search for tables and rows by using Dataverse search
Configure facets and filters
Frequently asked questions about Dataverse search
Developer's guide: Search for Dataverse records using the API
Compare search options in Microsoft Dataverse

Last updated on 01/13/2026

Search for records by using Dataverse
search
When Dataverse search is "On", the search box appears at the top of every page in your app and
is the default global search experience for all model-driven apps. Dataverse search also lets you
use certain generative AI experiences. You can't switch to quick find search, also known as
categorized search. Start a new search to quickly find the information you need.
Turn on Dataverse search to give users a better search experience in model-driven apps.
Environment admins can manage their environments by selecting Off to opt out of this feature.
[!Note] If Dataverse search is set to "Default", the search box isn't visible for searching content.
Generative AI experiences are still available.

See recent rows and searches
See your recent searches and recently accessed rows when you select the search box. Before you
start typing in the search box, you'll see information pop-up that helps you complete your search.
Up to three recent search terms appear at the top, based on the last three search queries that
you viewed the results for. These recent search terms are personalized and based on your device
and browser.
The recent search terms are followed by up to seven of the rows you recently accessed. If you
frequently access a few rows, you can quickly get to them from here. Recently accessed rows are
independent of tables that have been indexed for Dataverse search, because no search has been
performed yet. The rows are also grouped by table type, which lets you quickly scan the list.

Legend
1. Recent searches: Shows your recent searches.
2. Recently accessed rows: Shows rows that you recently accessed, grouped by table type.

Inline suggestions
７ Note
If you're using custom analyzers for searching records, the records don't show in the inline
suggestions.
As you start entering text, you'll see suggested results that help minimize keystrokes and simplify
page navigation. Suggested results are based on a search performed on all searchable columns
of a table, which is enabled for Dataverse search and included in your model-driven app. For
more information, see Add or edit model-driven app components in the Power Apps app
designer.
Suggestions are shown when three or more characters are entered in the search box, and are
based on two types of matching:
Word completion: Rows where the primary field contains a word that begins with the
search term. For example, entering work will show the account AdventureWorks and the
contact John Worker, among other results.

Fuzzy search: Terms that are misspelled by one character are matched. For example,
entering winry will show the account Coho Winery, among other results.
Suggested rows display a secondary field alongside the primary field to help differentiate rows
with the same primary field value. The secondary field is selected based on the table’s quick find
view:
If the search text appears in a field within the quick find view, that field is used as the
secondary field.
If no match is found, the first non-primary field in the quick find view that contains data for
the row is displayed instead.

With suggestions, you can access your information quickly by using minimal keystrokes even
when the search term is misspelled by a character. Text that's highlighted in bold in the
suggestions shows the term that was matched.

Search results page
View the full results for a search by pressing Enter on your keyboard or selecting Show more
results. Dataverse search will append "*" to the search if two or less characters are entered.
Search results are ranked based on relevance and grouped by tables. The list of tables that
include rows that match the search term are displayed horizontally as tabs along the top of the
screen.
When a search query contains multiple words, it's automatically split into individual search terms.
Additionally, our fuzzy search feature expands results by including related words such as
synonyms, acronyms, and abbreviations. For example, searching for "Robert Clark" might return
results for "Bob Clark" due to fuzzy matching and "John Clark" because one of the search terms
matches. To ensure an exact match, enclose the entire query in double quotes (for example,
"Robert Clark").
To understand why a row appears in your search results, hover over the icon at the beginning of
each row to see the text that matched your search.
７ Note
Rows returned in the search grid can't be sorted.

Top results tab
The Top results tab displays the top 20 results for the search term, with results grouped by table
type. Each group shows results for a table in a grid that has up to six columns. The columns are
the first six columns of the table's View columns quick find view.
７ Note
The primary column of a table is always used as the first column in the results on the
Top results tab.
For notes and attachment tables, two additional columns show information about the
related row for that note or attachment.
Party list columns on activity tables—such as To, CC, and attendees—can't be searched
on or shown, and will be blank.

In the following image, the top search results from three tables are displayed.

Legend:
1. Top results: This tab shows the top 20 results for your search term.
2. Rows grouped by table type: To narrow your search results to a specific table, select the
table-specific tab.

3. Show more: When you select Show more at the bottom of a group, you switch to the tablespecific tab.

Table-specific tabs
Tabs for the specific tables that contain search results are displayed horizontally. The exact order
of the tables from left to right (in a left-to-right environment) is based on the relevance of the
results. You can collapse the filter panel or hover over the list of tabs to scroll horizontally.
The tables that include the rows in the top 20 results are shown in the first three tabs from left to
right, from most to least relevant. The tables that include the results outside of the top 20 are
displayed in descending order.

Legend:
Shows the top 20 results from three different tables.
Shows the three tables that are part of the top results, ordered by relevance.
Shows the rest of the matched table types, ordered by the number of records that match
the search.
Select a tab to drill down into a specific table and view more information about the rows in the
results.

Legend:
1. Shows the number of results for this specific table.
2. Shows the columns that were searched for the table.
Each table-specific tab displays more information than the Top results tab along two different
dimensions:
If the quick find view for the table has more than six View Column, then all columns are
displayed on the table-specific tab, compared to the maximum of six columns shown on the
Top results tab.
All matching rows for the table are accessible in the table-specific tab as an infinitely
scrollable list.

Scope search to a specific table
You can narrow Dataverse search to a single table so that results include only records from the
table you choose, instead of searching across all tables. Scoping your search to a specific table is
useful when you already know the type of record you're looking for and want to reduce noise
from unrelated results.
To scope your search to a specific table:
1. Select the search box to begin a search.
2. Choose the table you want to search from the table selector.

3. Enter your search term. The results include only records from the selected table.

Filter results by using facets
On the search results page, you can use facets and filters to refine and explore your search
results. Facets are available on the Filter panel, which you can expand or collapse.
The Top results tab shows search results across different row types, such as a contact versus a
phone call. Thus, the Top results tab only shows the three global facets that apply to all row
types:
Owner
Modified On
Created On
On a table-specific tab, facets that apply to that table type are displayed above the three global
facets.
ﾉ

The Top results tab shows only global facets

Expand table

Other tabs show facets that are specific to that
table type

You can personalize facets for a table by using the Set Personal Options dialog box. More
information: Configure facets and filters

Text-based facets with discrete values
All Lookup and Choice data types are text-based facets. For example, the text-based facet
Priority consists of a list of column values (choices) and their corresponding counts.

Filters in these facets are sorted in descending order by count. By default, the top four-facet
values are displayed. When there are more than four-facet values, you can select Show more to
expand the list and see up to 15 results.
When you select a facet value, you filter search results to show only rows where the column
includes the value that you selected.

Date and time facets
The date and time facets let you filter and see search results for a specific period. Use the From
and To drop-down lists to specify a time period.

Feedback link
On the search results page, the answer to Did you find what you were looking for? is collected
in our product telemetry as a binary feedback. Search parameters—like the query text that you
entered in the search box—isn't collected, irrespective of your response to the question. We only
use Yes or No response statistics to help us understand the usefulness of the search experience.
Currently there's no option to disable the feedback question prompt.

Understand search results
Dataverse search has a powerful set of capabilities to help you put Microsoft Dataverse at your
fingertips. Here are some pointers to help you understand what results you can expect in
different scenarios.

７ Note
Dataverse search is text-based, and can search only on columns of type Single line of
text, Multiple lines of text, Choice, or Lookup. Columns of type Numeric and Date
aren't searched on.
Dataverse search enables you to search for rows that are shared with you and rows that
you own. Hierarchical security models aren't supported. This means that even if you see
a row in Dataverse because you have access to it through hierarchical security, you
won't see that row matched by Dataverse search unless you own it or it was shared
with you.
Dataverse search supports column level security. This means that a user with access to
a restricted column can search for the column and will see it in the search results. A
user that doesn't have permission to the restricted column won't be able to search or
see results for the column.

 Tip
The order of tables in the Top results tab and in the horizontal list of tabs is based on the
ranking and relevance of search results for that search term. You can make results from a
particular table appear at the top by including the table name in the search term. For
example, searching for account fabrikam would, in most cases, rank result records that have
the term fabrikam of type account higher than result records that have the term fabrikam of
type other than account.
Boosted search results
Use important attributes as keywords to "boost" your search for information. Entering a
table type to boost search results is an easy way to indicate which results you prefer. For
example, searching for Susan Adatum indicates that you're looking for a contact Susan
related to the account Adatum.
Natural language understanding
Search has a better understanding of terms that are used to indicated intent. Some
examples include:
Searching for open phone calls will show phone call activity records that have the status
open.

Searching for contact missing email will show contacts who have an empty email
address field, rather than treating missing as a keyword.
Spelling correction
Search forgives common spelling mistakes. For example, when you search for william
conatc, search results will include the contact record with the name William, even though
the word contact was misspelled.
Synonyms, acronyms, and abbreviations
With support for common abbreviations and synonyms, you can search for your information
the way you remember it, not necessarily the way it's stored. Some examples include:
Common name variations like Bob/Robert are matched with either search term.
A search term that uses an abbreviation like active accts will be interpreted semantically
as "active accounts."
The power of common knowledge
Search can understand popular locations, date, time, holidays, and numbers. For example, a
search for account in WA will generate results for accounts located in Washington state.
７ Note
All the preceding capabilities are part of intelligent search, which is only available for
public cloud environments that have English as the base language.
To get these results, the preceding examples assume that specific fields for each table
were indexed.

Working with operators
Operators help you craft precise search queries that can tailor your results according to specific
conditions. This section describes some of the supported operators.

Boolean operators
Search on a combination of terms using the + operator, which performs an AND search and
shows results containing all the individual terms separated by +. For example, alpine + paul
returns the contact record Paul Cannon related to the account record Alpine Ski House.

Similarly, the OR operator can be indicated by separating terms with a vertical bar (|). For
example, searching for alpine | paul returns records with reference to either term.

Use the NOT operator with a hyphen (-) before a keyword to indicate that it should be excluded
from results.
For example, when you search for evaluation, all rows matching the term evaluation will appear
in results.

However, searching for evaluation + -agreed will match all rows that contain the term evaluation
but not the term agreed.

Wildcards
Use wildcards for operators such as begins-with and ends-with. Using an asterisk (*) at the
beginning or end of a keyword makes the asterisk a placeholder for zero or more characters. For
example, searching on *win will show results for all records associated with a keyword that ends
with win.

Exact matches
Use double quotation marks around a keyword to perform an exact match. Search ignores
common used words such as the, an, and a. To improve matching, use double quotation marks
and force an exact match for your search. For example, searching on "Call back for resolution
(sample)" will match the exact keywords.

Quick actions
The Dataverse search experience brings some of the most frequently used actions closer to
search results, to help you complete your task without having to navigate to the record page in

model-driven apps.
Quick actions are a small set of commands specific to a table. You can see quick actions when
you're interacting with search in model-driven apps running on a web browser. Some of the
commonly used tables are configured to show a set of commands to help you complete your
task without losing context.
ﾉ

Table

Quick actions

Account

Assign, Share, Email a link

Contact

Assign, Share, Email a link

Appointment

Mark complete, Cancel, Set Regarding, Assign, Email a link

Task

Mark complete, Cancel, Set Regarding, Assign, Email a link

Phone Call

Mark complete, Cancel, Set Regarding, Assign, Email a link

Email

Cancel, Set Regarding, Email a link

Expand table

For more information on how to configure quick actions, see Configure Dataverse search to
improve search results and performance.

Quick actions and suggested results
As you interact with search, you'll find quick actions next to the most recently accessed records
and the suggested results that appear as you type.
ﾉ

Quick actions for recently accessed rows

Quick actions in results pages

Expand table

Quick actions for suggested results as you type

As you type, quick actions will appear for suggested results.

On the results page, hover over the results to see quick actions available for the row.

Use keyboard shortcuts
The following keyboard shortcuts apply to grids. For more information, see:
Navigation
Editing
Selection

See also
What is Dataverse search?
Configure facets and filters
Frequently asked questions about Dataverse search

Last updated on 07/15/2026

Configure facets and filters
Article • 02/15/2022

With Microsoft Dataverse, you can refine your search results by using facets and filters.
Facets and filters let you drill into and explore the results of your current search without
having to repeatedly refine your search terms.
In the Set Personal Options dialog box, you can personalize the facets for a table.
７ Note
Your admin can use the quick find view to define which fields appear as default
facets when you use Dataverse search. The first four view columns that include data
types other than Single line of text or Multiple lines of text are displayed as
default facets in the result. You can override this setting in your personalization
settings. At any time, you can select up to four fields as facets.
1. In the upper-right corner, select Settings, and then select Personalization Settings.

2. On the General tab, in the Select the default search experience section, for Facets
and Filters, select Configure.

3. In the Configure Facets and Filters dialog box, specify the facets you'd like to see
for a table:
In the Select Table drop-down list, select the table you want to configure
facets for. This drop-down list contains only the tables that are enabled for
Dataverse search.
For the selected table, select up to four facet columns. By default, the first
four "facet-able" columns in the quick find view for the selected table are
selected in the list. At any time, you can only have four columns selected as
facets.
You can update multiple tables at a time. When you select OK, the changes for all tables
that you've configured are saved. To revert to the default behavior for a table that you
previously configured, select Default.
７ Note
If a system customizer deletes a column or makes it no longer searchable, and
you've saved a facet for that column, it will no longer show up as a facet. You'll only
see the columns that exist in the default solution and have been configured as
searchable by your system customizer.

See also

What is Dataverse search?
Search for tables and rows by using Dataverse search
Frequently asked questions about Dataverse search

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Frequently asked questions about
Dataverse search
What is Dataverse search?
Dataverse search is the foundation that enables Copilot and in-app search experiences to
understand and process business data. It helps organizations turn raw information into
meaningful insights. For more information about Dataverse search and its enabled experiences,
see What is Dataverse search.

What is the difference between "On" and "Default"
state for Dataverse search?
The state you select for Dataverse search affects the ability to use Dataverse data across the
enabled experiences for your organization. For a better understanding of what each Dataverse
search state means, see:
What Dataverse search setting means for global search
What Dataverse search means for generative AI enabled experiences

What is the scope of content searched by
Dataverse search using Global Search?
Any file or Dataverse knowledge added to Agents or model-driven apps defines the scope of
content that's searched.

What are the column types that Dataverse search
can search by using Global Search?
The Find Columns on a Quick Find View define the searchable fields in the Dataverse search
index. Text fields such as Single Line of Text and Multiple Lines of Text, Lookups, and Option
Sets are searchable. Find Columns of all other data types such as Integer and Double are
ignored. For more information, see Select searchable fields and filters for each table.

Why don't I see Global Search results from a table
that I enabled for Dataverse search?
If a table isn't part of the model-driven app, it isn't included in search results. Use the Power
Apps app designer to verify that the table is included in that app's components. Make sure that
the table has a default Quick Find View created and defined. A default Quick Find View is
created with a table, but if you remove it, you need to select the Quick Find View you want and
set as the default for your table. For more information, see Add or edit model-driven app
components.

Can I configure quick actions to show or hide
certain commands?

Yes, you can configure quick actions by using version 9.2.21034.00126 or later. Quick actions
are a subset of a table's grid-level command set. You can configure them by using ribbon rules.
For more information on how to configure quick actions, see Configure Dataverse search to
improve search results and performance.

Why are results that appear in suggestions
sometimes not seen on the results page?
Suggestions are quick results based on a search performed on the primary column of a table.
This feature is enabled for Dataverse search in model-driven apps. Learn more in Inline
suggestions.
When you go to the results page, the search terms are treated as the complete search query.
The search performs many more types of matching to display a more comprehensive set of
results.

Can I configure the order of tables appearing in
the Global Search results page?
The order of tables in the Top results tab and in the horizontal list of tabs is based on the
ranking and relevance of search results for that search term. You can make results from a
particular table appear at the top by including the table name in the search term. For example,
searching for account fabrikam usually ranks result records that have the term fabrikam of
type account higher than result records that have the term fabrikam of a type other than
account.

Can I see search results from SharePoint files and
documents through Global Search?
Currently, Dataverse search searches your data in Microsoft Dataverse only. It doesn't search
SharePoint files and documents, including the names of the files and the content in the files. It
also doesn't search objects of File data type in Dataverse.

Why am I unable to view information for party list
fields like To, From, and CC in full results?
Party list fields are special fields. Dataverse search doesn't support them, and it doesn't include
them in the search results page.

Why don't returns support HTML formatting for
memo data types?
Dataverse search doesn't return HTML formatting for memo types to optimize the UI
experience.

Why aren't columns enabled for Dataverse search
after adding them to a quick find view, to use them
in Global Search?
Columns are enabled for Dataverse search only if a quick find view is set as the default view.
For more information on how to set a default view, see Specify a default view for a table.

Why doesn't search on the OwnerID attribute work
when I enable search on it?
The search and suggest operations don't have access to data from the Owner column. For
more information, see Types of columns.

Why doesn't search on the RegardingObjectId
attribute work when I enable search on it?
Search doesn't support polymorphic lookup attributes. The RegardingObjectId attribute in
activity tables like email and task is a polymorphic lookup attribute.

How is the Dataverse search API throttled?
When you use the Dataverse search API, throttling limits restrict you to one request per second
for each user. Additionally, each organization can make up to 150 requests per minute.

What attribute types does Dataverse search
indexing support?
BigInt
Boolean
Customer

DateTime
Decimal
Double
EntityName
Integer
Lookup
Memo
Money
Owner
Picklist
State
Status
String
Uniqueidentifier
Virtual (only for MultiSelectPicklistType and FileType)

What attribute types are eligible for facet list
fields?
Lookup
DateTime
Money
Picklist
Integer
Customer
Decimal
MultiSelectPicklist
State
Status

How can I use the Dataverse search API?
See Developer's guide: Search for Dataverse records using the API.

Does Dataverse search support US Government
clouds?
Dataverse search strives to maintain functional parity between our commercially available
services and those available through our US Government clouds. It's available in US

Government Community Cloud (GCC), US GCC High, and Department of Defense (DoD).

How is Dataverse search reported?
In addition to the database and file storage, Dataverse search includes the indexes that power
different experiences. These indexes support search and generative AI across structured or
tabular, and unstructured data stored in Dataverse, including files. Dataverse search storage
appears at the environment level in the DataverseSearch table, previously called
RelevanceSearch .

Learn more in Dataverse capacity-based storage.

What actions can admins take to manage
Dataverse search?
Depending on the experience that uses Dataverse search and its usage, the consumption size
might increase. To learn more about managing Dataverse search, see What is Dataverse search.

What happens if I turn off Dataverse search?
If you set Dataverse search to Off for the environment, you can't use the search capability in
the Power Apps navigation bar or any generative AI experience that relies on Dataverse. This
limitation includes experiences like uploaded files or using OneDrive or SharePoint files (via
upload) in Microsoft Copilot Studio agents, among other experiences. For details about these
limitations, see What is Dataverse search.

See also
What is Dataverse search?
Search for tables and rows using Dataverse search
Configure facets and filters

Last updated on 01/13/2026

Use quick find search
Article • 10/22/2024

Quickly search across multiple tables at the same time and find the information that
you're looking for. When you enter a search term the system finds matches to all words
in the search term in one column within a table. The words can be matched in any order
in the column.
With categorized search, you can search for rows that begin with a specific word or use
a wildcard character.
Begins with: Results include rows that begin with a specific word. For example, if
you want to search for "Alpine Ski House," type alp in the search box; if you type
ski, the row won't show up.
Wildcard: For example, *ski or *ski*.
７ Note
Using a wildcard at the beginning of your quick find (single or multiple-table)
search query might result in slower performance.

Single table quick find
Single table quick find is also called grid search. For more information, see Grid search.

Multiple-table quick find (categorized search)
Multiple-table quick find searches up to 10 tables and returns the search results
grouped by table.
You can view a maximum of 80 rows per table with multiple-table quick find. You might
need to refine your query, if the row that you're looking for is outside the maximum
range.
1. To start a categorized search, on the command bar, select Search.

2. Type your search words in the search box, and then select Search. The search
results are grouped by table such as Products, Reservations, and Reviews.

3. Select a table from the Filter with list to filter results by table type. To search across
all tables, select None.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Advanced find in model-driven apps
Article • 01/16/2024

The topic covers the various different ways to use the advanced find experience.

Search for rows and create personal views with
modern advanced find
When your administrator enables the modern advanced find experience, it lets you
search for rows and create personal views in your app. Depending on how search is
setup for your app, the search experience might look a little different. Your administrator
can turn on Dataverse search or disable it.
1. To start a search, choose one of the following:
Dataverse search enabled: If your administrator has enabled Dataverse
search, you will see a search bar at the top. Select the search box and then
select Search for rows in a table using advanced filters to see the list of
tables to choose from.

 Tip
Search for rows in a table using advanced filters option appears at the
bottom of the search drop-down menu, only when you have not entered
a search term. Once you start typing, you will see results for the search
term, with an option to see more search results.
Dataverse search disabled: If your administrator has not enabled Dataverse
search, then you will see the Search button and the Advanced Find button

on the command bar. Select the Advanced Find button, to see the list of
tables to choose from.

2. Select a table and choose Continue to access the table. The tables in the filter must
meet the following requirements:
Part of the model-driven app
Enabled for Unified Interface
Valid for advanced find
3. You will be navigated to the table's grid page, with the default view for the table
selected and the rows displayed in a read-only grid. The Edit filters panel will be
opened, so you can filter the data on that table. For more information, see create
and manage personal views for that table.
For more information on creating and managing system views, see Create and edit
public or system views.

Create, edit, or save a view using legacy
advanced find
If your administrator has not enabled the modern advanced find experience, you can
find the rows you want by using the legacy Advanced Find search option. You can also
use Advanced Find to prepare data for export to Office Excel so that you analyze,
summarize, or aggregate data, or create PivotTables to view your data from different
perspectives.
７ Note

To use the modern advanced find in model-driven apps, see Create and manage
personal views on a grid page .
1. On the command bar, select Advanced Find button

.

2. Specify what to search for.
a. In the Look for list, select a row type.
b. Choose Select to define search criteria: column (for example, Account Name or
City), the query relational operator (part of an expression such as "is equal to" or
"contains" that defines how a specified column should be compared with a
value.), and the values to locate (for example, "Seattle" or "Email").
You can select columns from the current row type, or from related rows. For
example, an account might have many related contact rows.
At the bottom of the Select list, the Related section shows related row types.
For example, most row types have a related Notes row type. To select columns
from a related row type, select column and a new Select link appears.
3. Specify the columns to include in the search results.
a. Select Edit Columns, and then select Add Columns.
b. Select the row type that includes the columns you want to add.
c. Select the columns you want to add, and then select OK.
4. Specify the sort order.
a. Select Edit Columns.
b. Select Configure Sorting.
c. Specify the column to sort on, specify the sort order, and then select OK.
d. Select OK.
5. Select Results.
To save the results, select Save As and name the personalized view.

Share a personal view
Before you can share a personal view, it must be saved.

1. On the command bar, select the Advanced Find button.
2. On the Advanced Find tab, select Saved Views.

3. From the list of saved views, select a view and then select Share.

4. In the Share saved view screen, select Add User/Team.

5. Use the look up to find the users or team that you want to share the view with.

6. When you find the user or team, select their name and then choose Select and
then Add.

7. Select each user’s permission and then select Share.

Delete a personal view
1. On the command bar, select the Advanced Find button.
2. On the Advanced Find tab, select Saved Views.

3. From the list of saved views, select the view that you want to delete and then
select Delete Saved View.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

How to import data
10/22/2025

Import data stored somewhere else into your model-driven app using the import feature in
Power Apps.
Every table requires columns that must exist in your input file. You should download an Excel
template, add your data, and then import the file to your app. The template saves time and
effort. Don't add or modify columns in the template to avoid issues during the import.
Before you import a file, make sure the column headings match the column names in your app.
During the import process, the system tries to map the column names from your input file to
the column names in the app. If they don't match, then you have to manually map the fields or
you might run into issues during the import process.
If you're an advanced user and know the required columns for a given Dataverse table, define
your own Excel, CSV, or XML source file and then follow the steps in this article on how to
import data to your app. These file formats are supported:
Excel workbook (.xlsx)
Comma-separated values (.csv)
XML Spreadsheet 2003 (.xml)
The maximum file size allowed for .zip files is 32 MB. For the other file formats, the maximum
file size allowed is 8 MB.

Download an Excel template
To avoid mapping issues, you should use an Excel template that you can download from your
app. Once the template is downloaded, add your data and then import the file back to your
app. Remember don't add or modify columns in the template to avoid issues during the import
process.
1. Open your app and from the left nav select a table.
2. On the command bar, select Excel Templates > Download Template.
3. Select the table type and view to download or select Edit Columns and choose the rows
to include in the template.
4. Select Download.

Import your data
Use the template that you downloaded in the previous step (modified with your data) and
import the file to your app.
1. Open an app and from the left nav select a table.

2. On the command bar, select the file type to import from:
Import from Excel: Select Import from Excel if you're using an Excel template.
Import from CSV
Import from XML

3. Select Choose File and browse to the folder where the file is saved. Select the file, select
Open, and then select Next.
 Tip
You can only import one file at a time. To bring in more files, run the wizard again.
4. Select whether to Allow Duplicates or not. More information, see Set up duplicate
detection rules to keep your data clean.
5. For CSV and XML files (skip this step if you're importing an Excel file):
For a CSV file: Select the drop-down list and select the data delimiter and field
delimiter that's used for the CSV file.
For CSV or XML file: If you have an alternate key defined, select it from the alternate
Key drop-down list. The alternate key is used to uniquely identify and update rows
during import. More information: Define alternate keys to reference rows.

6. Select Review Mapping and verify the columns (fields) are mapped correctly. If everything
looks good, select Finish Import.

7. Select Track Progress to see the progress of the import.

Review mapping
When you import a file, it's important to review the column headings and verify that they
match the columns (fields) in your app.

Legend:
1. Primary Fields: Shows all the required columns for the table that must be mapped for the
data to be imported successfully. If the column headings of your source file match the
column display names, these columns are automatically mapped.
2. Mapped columns: Correctly mapped columns are shown with a green check mark.
3. Optional Fields: These are optional column headings in your source file. If the column
headings match the column display names, the columns are automatically selected in the
corresponding drop-down lists.
4. Unmatched columns: If the column headings don't match, the unmapped columns are
shown with a red exclamation point. To map the column correctly, select a column to map

to the unmapped column heading of your file.
5. Ignore (For Optional Fields only): Choose Ignore from the drop-down list. Data from
ignored columns aren't imported into your app.

Option set
If any column in your source file includes a fixed set of values, you must map the column to a
column of type Option Set. A column of this type has values such as Yes and No or Low and
High.
To do this, select the
OK.

button next to the option set column, select the values, and then select

The option values drop-down list combines the values available in the incoming file with those
already in your app. For example:
Values in import file: Low, High
Values already in your app: Cold, Warm, Hot
Resulting target values: Cold, Warm, Hot, Low, High
After import, the import wizard will add all mapped values in your app, but will drop
unmapped values from the import file that aren't yet in your app. For example, you could map
the "Low" source value to the "Cold" target value, but map the "High" source value to the (new)
"High" target value. Based on these mappings, the import wizard creates "High" as a target

value in your app. It doesn't create "Low" as a target value in your app because you didn't map
any source to this target value.
７ Note
You can map a column in your source file to a "Two Options" or "Multiselect Option Set"
column. When mapping