          The form shows the record that you selected in the gallery, but the default set of
          fields might not match what you want in your final product.
         4. In the right-hand pane, hide each of these fields by clearing its checkbox:
             Sales order ID
             Account
             Sales person
             Account contact
         5. Move the Order status field by dragging it to the left and then dropping it on the
          other side of the Customer purchase order reference field.
          Your screen should resemble this example:
       Select a data card
       Each field displayed has a corresponding data card on the form. This card includes a set
       of controls for the field title, an input box, a star (which appears if the field is required),
       and a validation error message.
       You can also select cards directly on the form. When a card is selected, a black caption
       appears above it.
        ７ Note
        To delete a card (not just hide it), select it, and then press Delete.
       Arrange cards in columns
       By default, forms in tablet apps have three columns, and in phone apps have one. You
       can specify not only how many columns a form has but also whether all cards should fit
       within column borders.
       In this graphic, the number of columns in the form was changed from three to four with
       the Snap to columns check box selected. The cards in the form were arranged
       automatically to fit the new layout.
       Resize cards across multiple columns
       Depending on the data in each card, you might want some cards to fit in a single
       column and other cards to span multiple columns. If a card contains more data than you
      want to show in a single column, you can widen the card by selecting it and then
      dragging the grab handle on the left or right border of its selection box. As you drag the
      handle, the card will "snap" to column boundaries.
      To make your design more flexible but keep some structure, you can increase the
      number of columns to 12. With that change, you can easily configure each card to span
      the entire form, half of the form, one-third, one-quarter, one-sixth, and so forth. Let's
      see this in action.
       1. In the right-hand pane, set the number of columns in the form to 12.
        The form doesn't visibly change, but you have more snap points as you drag the
        left or right grab handle.
       2. Increase the width of the Order date card by dragging the grab handle on the
        right one snap point to the right.
        The card spans four of the form's 12 columns (or 1/3 of the form), instead of only
        three of the form's 12 columns (or 1/4 of the form). Whenever you increase a
        card's width by one snap point, the card spans an additional 1/12 of the form.
       3. Repeat the previous step with the Order status and Customer purchase order
        reference cards.
         4. Resize the Name and Description cards to take up six columns (or 1/2) of the form.
         5. Make the first two lines of the delivery address stretch entirely across the form:
       All done. We have our desired form, mixing rows with different numbers of columns:
       Manipulate controls in a card
       The delivery address includes several pieces of information that we want to visually
       group together for the user. Each field will remain in its own data card, but we can
       manipulate the controls within the card to make them fit better together.
         1. Select the First line of Delivery address card, select the label within that card, and
          then delete the first three words from the text.
        2. Select the Second line of Delivery address card, select the label within that card,
         and then delete all of the text in it.
         It may be tempting to remove the label control and, in many cases, that will work
         fine. But formulas might depend on that control being present. The safer approach
         is to remove the text or to set the Visible property of the control to false.
        3. In the same card, move the text input box over the label to reduce the space
         between the first and second lines of the address.
         The height of the card shrinks when its contents take up less space.
       Now let's turn our attention to the third line of the address. Similar to what we just did,
       let's shorten the text of each label for these cards and arrange the Text input box to be
       to the right of each label. Here are the steps for the State card:
       Step         Description          Result
       1            Select the State card so that grab handles
                    appear around it.
       2            Select the label within this card so that grab
                    handles appear around it.
       Step         Description          Result
       3            Place the cursor to the right of the text, and
                    then delete the portion that we don't need.
       4            Using the grab handles on the sides, size the
                    label control to fit the new text size.
       5            Select the text input control within this card.
       6            Using the grab handles on the sides, size the
                    text input control to the size that you want.
       7            Drag up the text input box and to the right of
                    the label control, and then drop the text input
                    box.
       Our modifications to the
       State card are now
       complete.
       The result for the complete third address line:
       Many of the cards start out with dynamic formulas for their properties. For example, the
       Text input control that we resized and moved above had a Width property based on the
       width of its parent. When you move or resize a control, these dynamic formulas are
       replaced with static values. If you want, you can restore the dynamic formulas by using
       the formula bar.
              Turning off Snap to columns
              Sometimes you'll want finer control than the standard 12 columns can provide. For
              these cases, you can turn off Snap to columns and then position cards manually. The
              form will continue snapping to 12 columns, but you can also hold down the Alt or
              Ctrl+Shift keys after starting a resize or reposition to override the snap points. For more
              information, see alternate behavior keyboard shortcuts.
              In our example, the four components that make up the third line of the address all have
              exactly the same width. But this may not be the best layout, as city names are longer
              than state abbreviations, and the Text input box for countries/regions is short because of
              the length of its label. To optimize this space, turn off Snap to columns in the right-hand
              pane and then hold down the Alt or Ctrl+Shift keys after starting to size and position
              these cards.
              After careful positioning, the result has appropriate sizes for each field and even spacing
              horizontally between fields:
              In summary, what are the differences when Snap to columns is on versus off?
               Behavior                                 Snap to columns      Snap to columns Off
                                                        On
               Resize snaps to                          Number of            12 columns
                                                        columns you
                                                        select: 
                                                        1, 2, 3, 4, 6, or 12
               Resize snap can be overridden            No                   Yes, with Alt or Ctrl+Shift keys
                                                                             after starting the resize
               Cards automatically relayout between     Yes                  No
               rows (more on this later)
              Set width and height
      As with everything in Power Apps, the form's layout is governed by properties on the
      card controls. As already described, you can change the values of these properties by
      dragging controls to different locations or dragging grab handles to resize controls. But
      you'll discover situations in which you'll want to understand and manipulate these
      properties more precisely, especially when making your forms dynamic with formulas.
      Basic Layout: X, Y, and Width
      The X and Y properties control the position of cards. When we work with controls on the
      raw canvas, these properties provide an absolute position. In a form, these properties
      have a different meaning:
        X: Order within a row.
        Y: Row number.
      Similar to controls on the canvas, the Width property specifies the minimum width of
      the card (more on the minimum aspect in a moment).
      Let's take a look at the X, Y, and Width properties of the cards in our form:
      Overflowing rows
      What happens if the cards on a row are too wide to fit on that row? Normally you don't
      need to worry about this possibility. With Snap to columns on, these three properties
      will automatically be adjusted so that everything fits nicely within rows without
      overflowing.
      But with Snap to columns turned off or a formula-based Width on one or more of your
      cards, overflowing a row can happen. In this case, the cards will automatically wrap so
      that, effectively, another row is created. For example, let's manually change the Width
      property of our Customer purchase order reference card (first row, third item) to 500:
      The three cards on the top row no longer fit horizontally, and another row has been
      created to wrap the overflow. The Y coordinate for all these cards is still the same at 0,
      and the Name and Description cards still have a Y of 1. Cards that have different Y
      values aren't merged across rows.
      You can use this behavior to create a fully dynamic layout, where cards are placed based
      on a Z-order, filling across as much as possible before moving to the next row. To
      achieve this effect, give all the cards the same Y value, and use X for the order of the
      cards.
      Filling spaces: WidthFit
      The overflow in the last example created a space after the Order status card, which was
      the second card in the first row. We could manually adjust the Width properties of the
      two remaining cards to fill this space, but this approach is tedious.
      As an alternative, use the WidthFit property. If this property is set to true for one or
      more cards in a row, any remaining space on the row will be evenly divided between
      them. This behavior is why we said earlier that the Width property of a card is a
      minimum, and what is seen can be wider. This property will never cause a card to shrink,
      only expand.
      If we set WidthFit to true on the Order status card, it fills the available space, while the
      first card remains unchanged:
      If we also set WidthFit to true on the Order date card, both cards will evenly split the
      available space:
      Grab handles on these cards take into account the extra width provided by WidthFit,
      not the minimum width provided by the Width property. It can be confusing to
      manipulate the Width property while WidthFit is turned on; you may want to turn it off,
      make changes to Width, and then turn it back on.
      When might WidthFit be useful? If you have a field that is used only in certain
      situations, you can set its Visible property to false, and the other cards on the row will
      automatically fill the space around it. You might want to use a formula that shows a field
      only when another field has a particular value.
      Here, we'll set the Visible property of the Order status field to a static false:
        With the second card effectively removed, the third card can now return to the same
        row as the first card. The first card still has WidthFit set to true, so it alone expands to fill
        the available space.
        Because Order status is invisible, you can't select it as easily on the canvas. However,
        you can select any control, visible or not, in the hierarchical list of controls on the left
        side of the screen.
        Height
        The Height property governs the height of each card. Cards have the equivalent of
        WidthFit for Height, and it's always set to true. Imagine that a HeightFit property exists,
        but don't look for it in the product because such a property isn't yet exposed.
        You can't turn off this behavior, so changing the heights of cards can be challenging. All
        cards within a row appear to be the same height as the tallest card. You might look at a
        row like this:
        Which card is making the row tall? In the previous graphic, the Total amount card is
        selected and appears tall, but its Height property is set to 80 (same as the height of the
        first row). To reduce the height of a row, you must reduce the Height of the tallest card
        in that row, and you can't identify the tallest card without reviewing the Height property
        of each card.
       AutoHeight
       A card might also be taller than you expect if it contains a control for which the
       AutoHeight property is set to true. For example, many cards contain a label that
       displays an error message if the field's value causes a validation problem.
       Without any text to display (no error), the label collapses to zero height. If you didn't
       know any better, you wouldn't know it was there, and that's as it should be:
       On the left side of the screen, the list of controls shows ErrorMessage1, which is our
       label control. As you update an app, you can select this control to give it some height
       and show grab handles with which you can position and size the control. The "A" in a
       blue box indicates that the control has AutoHeight set to true:
       The Text property of this control is set to Parent.Error, which is used to obtain dynamic
       error information based on validation rules. For illustration purposes, let's statically set
       the Text property of this control, which will increase its height (and, by extension, the
       height of the card) to accommodate the length of the text:
      Let's make the error message a little longer, and again the control and the card grow to
      accommodate. The row overall grows in height, keeping vertical alignment between the
      cards:
    Understand data cards in canvas apps
    This article explains what a data card is, how to change the control users enter data into, when
    to unlock a card, and how the form saves changes back to Dataverse.
    Data cards are the building blocks of Power Apps forms. Each data card displays and collects a
    value for a single field such as Name, Job Title, or Phone Number.
    The following screenshot shows a form with a data card for Account name selected.
    A Display form shows one record. Edit forms let users update an existing record or create a
    new one. In either type of form, each data card is connected to exactly one field (one column)
    in your data source—often a Dataverse table.
    A data card is a container that includes the field label, required validation behavior, and the
    control that users interact with. A data card contains the following:
       Required indicator (asterisk or star): Shows that the field must have a value.
       Title: The label shown to users for the field.
       Data card value: The input control (for example, a text box or dropdown) where users
       enter or edit the value
         Error message: Displays validation errors, usually after the form is submitted.
      Prerequisites
      If you're new to forms, start by reading add-form.md and working-with-forms.md.
      Customize a card
      A data card contains the controls that users see - usually a label such as the title, an input
      control like text input or dropdown, and an error message label. To customize how a field
      looks, select the control inside the card for example, the text input and adjust its size, position,
      or properties.
      Reorder fields on a form
      Power Apps offers predefined cards for strings, numbers, and other data types. You edit the
      form and rearrange fields letting you change the layout without unlocking any cards.
       1. Open your app for editing in Power Apps Studio.
       2. Select the form then select Fields.
       3. Select More actions and then selet Move up or Move down. You can also select and then
         drag fields into the order you want.
      Change a card’s control type
      You can easly change a card's control type. For exmaple you might want to change a single-line
      text card to a multiline text card so users have more space to enter information.
       1. Open your app for editing in Power Apps Studio.
       2. Select the form then select Fields.
      3. Select Expand field details which is the down arrow next to the field that you want to
       edit.
      4. Select the dropdown for Control type and then select a different control type. For
       example, switch from Edit text to Edit multi-line text.
    Resize a card
    You can move and resize controls in a locked card.
    You editing the controls inside a card without changing what field the card connects to.
      1. In the form, select the data card that you want to resize such as Account Name.
      2. Drag to move the text input within the card, and use the handles to resize it. This
       improves spacing and readability without unlocking the card.
     Unlock a card
     To make changes like deleting a control or adding a new control requires unlocking the card.
     When you add a field to a form, Power Apps creates a data card for you and sets up the basic
     formulas that connect the card to the data source. By default, Power Apps locks these cards so
     you don't accidentally break that connection. If you need more control, such as a custom
     layout, extra controls, or different formulas, you can unlock the card.
     The following screenshot shows a form with a data card that is locked.
      The key setting is DataField. It tells Power Apps which field (column) this card is responsible for.
      When the form submits, Power Apps uses the card's DataField value to know what field to
      update.
       1. To unlock a card, select the card
       2. In the Properties pane, select the Advanced.
       3. Select lock icon or select Unlock to change properties to unlock properties such as
         DataField, DisplayName, or Required.
       4. After you unlock the card, edit the generated formulas and add or remove controls inside
         the card.
                                                   ﾉ Expand table
         Locked properties         Unlocked properties
      You now take control over this card and can modify it further to fit your needs. But you lose the
      ability to change the card from one representation to another (for example, single-line text to
      multi-line text) as you did before. You transformed the predefined card into a "custom card"
      that you now control.
       ） Important
       You can't relock a card after you unlock it. To get a card back to a locked state, remove it,
       and reinsert it in the right-hand pane.
      Interact with a form
      After you unlock a card, you can control how values move between the form and the controls
      inside the card.
      A helpful way to think about an Edit form is: data flows in to show the current record
      (defaults), and data flows out when you submit the form updates. The card sits in the middle -
      its properties tell the form which field it represents and what value should be saved.
      DataField property
      The card's DataField property is the "this card edits this field" setting. It helps Power Apps
      decide what to validate, what value is required, and what field should be updated when you
      submit the form.
      Information flowing in
      When a form shows a record, it exposes that record as ThisItem. Think of ThisItem as the
      current row you're editing. It contains every field for that record.
      In Dataverse-backed forms, the card's DataField typically matches the field's logical name. The
      card's Default formula commonly references the current record, for example,
      ThisItem.FieldName, and the input control inside the card usually reads that value through
      Parent.Default. This pattern keeps the input control independent of the data source and lets
      the card encapsulate how the field value flows in.
      Most cards set their Default property to the current record's value, like ThisItem.FieldName.
      You can optionally transform that value, for example, format text before it shows in the input.
      Inside the card, the input control usually uses Parent.Default so it always shows whatever value
      the card provides. This approach keeps the card "self-contained". If you later change the card's
      default formula, you don't have to rewrite formulas inside the card.
      By default, the data source's metadata sets the DefaultValue and controls/control-card.md
      properties based on the controls/control-card.md property. You can override these formulas
      with your own logic by using the functions/function-datasourceinfo.md function to integrate
      the data source's metadata.
     Information flowing out
     When the user selects Save, this typically call SubmitForm. The form gathers values from each
     data card and writes them back to the data source. It uses each card’s DataField to know which
     field to update.
     To save changes from an Edit form, trigger SubmitForm(FormName) (for example, from a Save
     button). If you want to clear the inputs after a successful submit, follow with
     ResetForm(FormName). To create a new record instead of editing an existing one, set the
     form’s DefaultMode property to FormMode.New before the user starts entering data.
     The form also reads each card’s Update property - this is the value that gets saved for that
     field. If you need to clean up a value before saving, such as removing extra spaces, converting
     text to a number, or reversing a formatting change you made in Default, Update is usually the
     right place to do it.
     Valid is basically "is this field okay to submit?" Power Apps uses the data source rules and the
     card’s Required setting to decide this. If the value isn't valid, the card's Error property contains
     a message that you can show to the user, often through the Error Message label in the card.
     If a card’s DataField is blank, the card isn't tied to any field - it's just a container you can use for
     layout. In that case, its Update and Valid values don't affect what gets saved when you submit
     the form.
     Dissecting an example
     Take a closer look at what's inside a typical data-entry card. The following screenshots spread
     the controls out so you can see each piece clearly.
     In the next image, the controls inside the card are labeled so you can match what you see on
     the canvas to what’s in the tree view.
          Here are the main controls you usually see inside a card:
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
           Name                   Type           What it does
           TextRequiredStar       Label control  Shows a star or asterisk when the field is required.
           TextFieldDisplayName   Label control  Shows the friendly field name the user sees. This name often
                                                 differs from the internal schema name.
           InputText              Text input     Shows the current value and lets the user type a new one.
                                  control
           TextErrorMessage       Label control  Shows a message if the value can't be submitted, such as
                                                 missing required data.
          These controls usually don't connect to Dataverse directly. Instead, they read simple values
          from the parent card by using Parent, and the card handles the connection to the data source.
          The following formulas are common examples.
                                                                                             ﾉ
                                                                                                Expand table
           Control property             Formula             Beginner explanation
           TextRequiredStar.Visible     Parent.Required     Only show the star when the field is required.
           Last updated on 04/14/2026
       Display a full-sized image on a canvas
       app form
       Article • 12/16/2022
       By default, when an app user adds an image to display to a form in a canvas app, the
       image displayed is the thumbnail image. To display a full image for a canvas app, follow
       these steps:
        1. Open the canvas app in PowerApps Studio.
        2. Select Insert, and then select Image.
        3. Select the image data card.
        4. Under the Advanced tab set the Data field to the table that contains the image
         you want to display.
        5. Add .Full after the value for the image Default setting.
       6. Select Save.
      See also
      Show, edit, or add a record in a canvas app  
      Image fields
       Add a list box, a drop-down list, a
       combo box, or radio buttons to a canvas
       app
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Show a single column of data (for example, from a multi-column table) in a canvas app
       so that users can select one or more items in a list.
           Add a list box to allow users to select more than one option.
           Add a drop-down list or combo box to take up less space on a screen.
           Add a set of radio buttons for a particular design effect.
       This topic focuses on lists boxes and radio buttons, but the same principles apply to
       drop-down lists.
       Prerequisites
         1. Create a blank canvas app.
         2. Learn how to add and configure controls.
       Create a simple list
         1. Add a List box control named MyListBox, and set its Items property to this
           expression:
           ["circle","triangle","rectangle"]
           Your designer looks similar to the following:
                   2. On the Insert tab, select Icons, select the circle, and move it under MyListBox:
                   3. Add a triangle and a rectangle, and then arrange the shapes in a row under
                      MyListBox:
                   4. Set the Visible property of the following shapes to the following functions:
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
                       Shape            Set Visible function to
                       circle           If("circle" in MyListBox.SelectedItems.Value, true)
                       triangle         If("triangle" in MyListBox.SelectedItems.Value, true)
                       rectangle        If("rectangle" in MyListBox.SelectedItems.Value, true)
                   5. While holding down the Alt key, select one or more shapes in MyListBox.
                      Only the shape or shapes that you select appear.
               In these steps, you used an expression to create a list of items. You can apply this to
               other elements within your business. For example, you can use a Drop down control to
               display product images, product descriptions, and so on.
               Add radio buttons
                   1. On the Home tab, select New Screen, and then select Blank.
        2. On the Insert tab, select Controls, and then select Radio.
        3. Rename the Radio control to Choices, and set its Items property to this formula:
          ["red","green","blue"]
          If needed, resize the control to show all the options.
        4. On the Insert tab, select Icons, and then select the circle.
        5. Set the Fill property of the circle to the following function:
          If(Choices.Selected.Value = "red", Red, Choices.Selected.Value = "green",
          Green, Choices.Selected.Value = "blue", Blue)
          In this formula, the circle changes its color depending on which radio button you
          choose.
        6. Move the circle under the Radio control, as in this example:
         7. While holding down the Alt key, select a different radio button to change the color
          of the circle.
       Add an item to an existing list
         1. Add a Button control and name it "btnReset".
          Don't know how to add, name, and configure a control?
         2. Set OnSelect property on btnReset to this formula:
            Power Fx
            ClearCollect(MyItems, {value: "circle"},{value: "triangle"},{value: 
            "rectangle"})
         3. Set the Text property on btnReset to "Reset".
         4. Add a List box control named lbItems, and set its Items property to MyItems.
         5. While holding down the Alt key, press the Reset button.
            ７ Note
            The list box should populate with the items from the "MyItems" collection.
         6. Arrange the list box and button so they're lined up vertically.
         7. Add a Text Input control, and name it "txtAdd".
         8. Set Text property of txtAdd to "".
         9. Add a Button control, and name it "btnAdd".
        10. Set the Text property of btnAdd to "Add".
        11. Set OnSelect property of btnAdd to the following formula:
            Power Fx
            Collect(MyItems,{value: txtAdd.Text}); Reset(txtAdd)
            ７ Note
               The collect function will add the text from the text input as an item in
               the collection.
               The reset function will reset the text input back to it's default state.
        12. Arrange txtAdd and btnAdd so they're lined up vertically underneath lbItems and
          btnReset.
        13. Preview the app by pressing F5.
        14. Add a text value to txtAdd text input control.
        15. Press the Add button.
            ７ Note
            The list box should populate with the items from the MyItems collection.
              (Optional) Remove an item from an existing list
                 1. Add a Button control, and name it "btnDelete".
                 2. Set the Text property of btnDelete to"Delete".
                 3. Set OnSelect property of btnDelete to the following formula:
                      Power Fx
                      Remove(MyItems, lbItems.Selected)
                 4. Arrange btnDelete so it's lined up vertically underneath btnReset
                 5. Preview the app by pressing F5.
                 6. Press the Reset button to reset the list box.
                 7. Press an item in the list box to select it.
                 8. Press the Delete button to delete item.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Create dependent drop-down lists in a
       canvas app
       Article • 12/16/2022
       When you create dependent (or cascading) drop-down lists, users select an option in a
       list to filter options in another list. Many organizations create dependent lists to help
       users fill out forms more efficiently. For example, users might select a country or region
       to filter a list of cities, or users might select a category to show only the codes in that
       category.
       As a best practice, create a data source for the values in the "parent" and "child" lists (for
       example, countries/regions and cities) that's separate from the data source that users
       update by using the app. If you take this approach, you can use the same parent and
       child data in more than one app, and you can update that data without republishing the
       app or apps that use them. You can accomplish the same outcome by using a collection
       or static data, but it isn't recommended for enterprise scenarios.
       For the scenario in this topic, store employees submit issues to an Incidents list through
       a form. Employees specify not only the location of the store at which the incident
       occurred but also the department within that location. Not all locations have the same
       departments, so a Locations list ensures that employees can't specify a department for a
       location that doesn't have that department.
        ７ Note
        This article uses a list created using Microsoft Lists as the data source. However, all
        tabular data sources work the same way. Within Dataverse for Teams, you'll need
        to enable classic controls to get the classic drop-down to work for this scenario.
       Create data sources
       A Locations list shows the departments at each location.
        Location            Department
        Eganville           Bakery
        Eganville           Deli
        Eganville           Produce
                 Location                                          Department
                 Renfrew                                           Bakery
                 Renfrew                                           Deli
                 Renfrew                                           Produce
                 Renfrew                                           Pharmacy
                 Renfrew                                           Floral
                 Pembroke                                          Bakery
                 Pembroke                                          Deli
                 Pembroke                                          Produce
                 Pembroke                                          Floral
                An Incidents list shows contact information and information about each incident. Create
                the Date column as a Date column, but create the other columns as Single line of text
                columns to simplify configuration and avoid delegation warnings in Microsoft Power
                Apps.
                 First        Last          Phone            Location     Department       Description           Date
                 Name         Name          Number
                 Tonya        Cortez        (206) 555 -      Eganville    Produce          I had a problem       2/12/2019
                                            1022                                           with…
                 Moses        Laflamme      (425) 555 -      Renfrew      Floral           I experienced an      2/13/2019
                                            1044                                           issue…
                By default, lists include a Title column that you can't rename or remove, and it must
                contain data before you can save an item in the list. To configure the column so that it
                doesn't require data:
                   1. Near the upper-right corner, select the gear icon, and then select List settings.
                   2. On the Settings page, select Title in the list of columns.
                   3. Under Require that this column contains information, select No.
                After that change, you can ignore the Title column, or you can remove it                     from the
                default view if at least one other column appears.
                Open the form
         1. Open the Incidents list, and then select Integrate -> Power Apps -> Customize
          forms.
          A browser tab opens with the default form in Power Apps Studio.
         2. (optional) In the Fields pane, hover over the Title field, select the ellipsis (...) that
          appears, and then select Remove.
          If you've closed the Fields pane, you can open it again by selecting
          SharePointForm1 in the left navigation bar and then selecting Edit fields on the
          Properties tab of the right-hand pane.
         3. (optional) Repeat the previous step to remove the Attachments field from the
          form.
          The form appears with just the fields that you added.
       Replace the controls
         1. In the Fields pane, select the arrow next to Location.
          If you've closed the Fields pane, you can open it again by selecting
          SharePointForm1 in the left navigation bar and then selecting Edit fields on the
          Properties tab of the right-hand pane.
         2. Open the Control type list, and then select Allowed Values.
          The input mechanism changes to a Drop down control.
         3. Repeat these steps for the Department card.
       Add the Locations list
         1. Select View > Data Sources > Add data source.
         2. Select or create a SharePoint connection, and then specify the site that contains
          the Locations list.
         3. Select the check box for that list, and then select Connect.
          The list of connections shows the Incidents list, on which the form is based, and
          the Locations list, which will identify locations and departments in the form.
       Unlock the cards
        1. Select the Location card, select the Advanced tab in the right-hand pane, and then
          select Unlock to change properties.
        2. Repeat the previous step for the Department card.
       Rename the controls
       If you rename your controls, you can identify them more easily, and the examples are
       easier to follow. To discover other best practices, review the Coding Standards and
            Guidelines whitepaper  .
               1. In the Location card, select the Drop down control.
               2. Near the top of the right-hand pane, rename the selected control by typing or
                 pasting ddLocation.
               3. Repeat the previous two steps in the Department card to rename the Drop down
                 control to ddDepartment.
            Configure the locations
               1. Set the Items property of ddlocation to this formula:
                 Distinct(Locations, Location)
               2. (optional) While holding down the Alt key, open ddLocation, and confirm that the
                 list shows the three locations.
            Configure the departments
               1. Select ddDepartment, and then, on the Properties tab of the right-hand pane,
                 select Depends on.
               2. Under Parent control, ensure that ddLocation appears in the upper list and Result
                 appears in the lower list.
                   ７ Note
                   If you don’t want to match on a string but on the actual ID of the row of data,
                   select ID Instead of Result.
               3. Under Matching field, select Locations in the upper list, select Location in the
                 lower list, and then select Apply.
          The Items property of ddDepartment is set to this formula:
          Filter(Locations, Location = ddLocation.Selected.Result)
          This formula filters the items in ddDepartment based on what the user selects in
          ddLocation. Such a configuration ensures that the "child" list of departments
          reflects the data for its "parent" location, as the Locations list in SharePoint
          specifies.
        4. On the Properties tab of the right-hand pane, open the list next to Value, and then
          select Department.
          This step sets the display text to the options from the Department column of the
          Locations list in SharePoint.
       Test the form
       While holding down the Alt key, open the list of locations, select one, open the list of
       departments, and then select one.
       The lists of locations and departments reflects the information in the Locations list in
       SharePoint.
       Save and open the form (optional)
         1. Open the File menu, and then select Save > Publish to SharePoint > Publish to
          SharePoint.
         2. In the upper-left corner, select the back arrow, and then select Back to SharePoint.
         3. In the command bar, select New to open your customized form.
       FAQ
       I can’t see any data: the sources are all blank or have the wrong data. Confirm whether
       you're displaying the correct field for your control in either of these ways:
          Select a drop-down list, and then select the Value property in the Properties tab of
          the right-hand pane.
          Select a combo box, and then ensure that the primary text is the field that you
          want to display.
       My child drop-down list contains duplicate items. This symptom is likely due to using a
       LookUp column in SharePoint or a Choices function in Power Apps. To remove the
       duplication, wrap a Distinct function around the properly returning data. More
       information: Distinct function.
       Known limitations
      This configuration is available on Drop down controls, as well as Combo box and List
      box controls that allow one selection at a time. You can't use the Depends On
      configuration for any of those controls if they allow multiple selections. This approach
      isn't recommended for working with choices in Microsoft Dataverse.
      The Depends On configuration doesn't support static data or collections. To configure
      dependent drop-down lists with these sources, edit the expression directly in the
      formula bar. In addition, Power Apps doesn't support using two choice fields in
      SharePoint without any matching table of data, and you can't define Matching field
      within this UI.
         Show data in a line, pie, or bar chart in
         canvas apps
         Article • 05/21/2025
         Use line charts, pie charts, and bar charts to display your data in a canvas app. When you work
         with charts, the data that you import should be structured based on these criteria:
              Each series should be in the first row.
              Labels should be in the leftmost column.
         For example, your data should look similar to the following:
                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
          Product             Revenue2012              Revenue2013             Revenue2014
          Europa              21000                    26000                   28000
          Ganymede            15000                    17000                   21000
          Callisto            14000                    19000                   23000
         You can create and use these charts within Power Apps. Let's get started.
         Prerequisites
              Sign up for Power Apps, and then sign in    using the same credentials that you used to
              sign up.
              Create an app from a template, from data, or from scratch.
              Learn how to configure a control in Power Apps.
              Create your own sample data using the example above and save it in Excel. Follow the
              steps in this topic to import it directly into your app.
         Import the sample data
         In these steps, we import the sample data into a collection, named ProductRevenue.
            1. On the command bar select, Insert > Media > Import.
            2. Set the control's OnSelect property to the following function:
               Collect(ProductRevenue, Import1.Data)
       3. On the app actions menu, select Preview the app and then select the Import Data
        button.
       4. In the Open dialog box, select your Excel file, select Open, and then press Esc.
       5. On the app authoring menu select, Variables > Collections.
        The ProductRevenue collection should be listed with the chart data you imported.
         ７ Note
         The import control is used to import Excel-like data and create the collection. The
         import control imports data when you are creating your app, and previewing your
         app. Currently, the import control does not import data when you publish your app.
       6. Press Esc to return to the default workspace.
     Add a pie chart
       1. On the command bar selelct, Insert > Charts > Pie Chart.
       2. Move the pie chart under the Import data button.
       3. In the pie-chart control, select the middle of the pie chart:
      4. Set the Items property of the pie chart to this expression: ProductRevenue.Revenue2014
       The pie chart shows the revenue data from 2014.
     Add a bar chart to display your data
     Now, let's use this ProductRevenue collection in a bar chart:
       1. On the command bar, select New screen > Blank.
       2. On the command bar, select Insert > Tree view > Column Chart.
       3. Select the middle of the column chart. Set the Items property of the column chart to
        ProductRevenue:
        The column chart shows the revenue data from 2012:
      4. In the column chart, select the center square:
      5. On the Chart tab, select Number of Series, and then enter 3 in the formula bar:
       The column chart shows revenue data for each product over three years:
         Using multimedia files in canvas apps
         ﾃ Summarize this article for me
         You can add images, audio, and video files to a canvas app. Add video from streaming services
         such as Microsoft Clipchamp, Azure Media Services, or third-party streaming services, such as
         YouTube. Or use input controls such as Pen Input to collect signatures.
         This article walks you through working with multimedia, streaming, and input control scenarios.
         The data source used in this article is an Excel file in OneDrive for Business.
         Prerequisites
         Sign up for Power Apps, and then sign in   by using the same credentials that you used to sign
         up.
         Watch this video to learn how to use multimedia files in canvas apps:
         https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=d8fdba22-a9cf-4ce4-a77d-
         7c7be89666bc&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
         apps%2Fadd-images-pictures-audio-video
         Add media from a file or the cloud
         You can choose the kind of media file to add (for example, images, video, or audio). You can
         add images by using the media pane or by using the images control.
     ７ Note
     When adding media files by URL,
        Use HTTPS to ensure compatibility with modern browsers.
        Ensure the URL is accessible anonymously without any authentication. Try to enter
        the URL in private browsing mode to verify that it's accessible without signing in.
    Add images, audio, or video by using the media pane
    To add or remove media files in your app by using the Media pane:
      1. Select Media from the left pane.
      2. Select Upload from the media panel.
      3. Select the files that you want to add, and then select Open.
      4. Select the file from the media pane to insert into the screen.
      5. Save and publish your app.
      6. Share app with others.
     Add images, audio, or video by using the controls
     To add images, audio, or video by using the Image, Audio or Video controls:
      1. Select Insert from the top menu.
      2. Select the Media drop-down.
      3. Choose from Image, Audio, or Video controls.
     For the Image control, update the Image property with the image file name, without extension.
     For the Audio or Video control, update the Media property with the file name, or the URL such
     as YouTube video URL in double quotation marks.
     Add media from Azure Media Services
      1. From your Azure Media Services account, upload and publish your video asset from AMS
       > Settings > Assets.
      2. After the video is published, copy its URL.
      3. From Power Apps, add the Video control from Insert > Media.
      4. Set the Media property to the URL that you copied.
       As this graphic shows, you can choose any streaming URL that Azure Media Services
       supports:
      5. Save and publish your app.
      6. Share app with others.
     Add Microsoft Clipchamp media
     For information about how to add a Microsoft Clipchamp video control, see Microsoft
     Clipchamp video control example.
     Add images from the cloud to your app
     In this scenario, you save images in a cloud storage account, OneDrive for Business. You use an
     Excel table to contain the path to the images, and you display the images in a gallery control in
     your app. In this scenario, you use your own image files stored in OneDrive for Business. You
     create an Excel table that contains the file paths to those images, and then display the images
     in a gallery control in your app.
      ７ Note
      The path to these images in the Excel file must use forward slashes. When Power Apps
      saves image paths in an Excel table, the path uses backslashes. If you use image paths
      from such a table, change the paths in the Excel table to use forward slashes instead of
      backslashes. Otherwise, the images won't display.
      1. In OneDrive for Business, create a folder named Assets_images, and upload a few .jpg or
        .png files to that folder.
      2. (Optional) If you used a different folder name, rename the folder to Assets_images.
      3. In an Excel spreadsheet, create a one-column table named Images, and then add one row
        per image. In each row, paste the file path (direct link) to an image in your Assets_images
        folder.
        Tip: To copy the file path from OneDrive for Business, select an image file, and then select
        Path (Copy direct link) from the details pane on the right side of the screen.
      4. Name the table Jackets, and name the Excel file Assets.xlsx.
      5. In your app, add the Jackets table as a data source.
      6. Optionally, update your app orientation to Landscape.
      7. Select Insert > Gallery, and then select Horizontal.
      8. Optionally, select the text field and then the heading field under the first image, and
       delete them to keep only images on the screen.
       If you see a formula error, press Ctrl+Z to undo the delete. Then, delete the Subtitle field
       and the Title field.
      9. Set the gallery's Items property of the gallery to Jackets.
     10. Select the first image in the gallery, and set its Image property to ThisItem.Images:
       The gallery is automatically updated with the images:
        When you set the Items property, a column named PowerAppsId is automatically added
        to the Excel table.
      11. Save and publish your app.
      12. Share app with others.
     Upload pen drawings to the cloud
     In this scenario, you learn how to upload pen drawings to your data source, OneDrive for
     Business, and examine how the drawings are stored there.
       1. In Excel, add Image [image] to cell A1.
       2. Create a table by using the following steps:
        a. Select cell A1.
        b. On the Insert ribbon, select Table.
        c. In the dialog box, select My table has headers, and then select OK.
                  Your Excel file is now in a table format. For more information about table formatting in
                  Excel, see Format the data as a table  .
               d. Name the table Drawings:
             3. Save the Excel file to OneDrive for Business as SavePen.xlsx.
             4. In Power Apps, create a blank app with Tablet layout.
             5. In your app, add the OneDrive for Business account as a data source:
                a. Select View menu, and then select Data sources.
               b. Select Add data source, and then select OneDrive for Business.
                c. Select SavePen.xlsx.
               d. Select the Drawings table, and then select Connect.
        Now, the Drawings table is listed as a data source.
      6. Select Insert > Input, and then select Pen Input.
      7. Rename the new control MyPen:
      8. On the Insert tab, add a Button control, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
       Patch(Drawings, Defaults(Drawings), {Image:MyPen.Image})
      9. Add a Horizontal gallery control (Insert tab > Gallery).
     10. Optionally, select the text field and then the heading field under the first image, and
       delete them to keep only images on the screen.
       If you see a formula error, press Ctrl+Z to undo the delete. Then, delete the Subtitle field
       and the Title field.
     11. Set the gallery Items property to Drawings. The Image property of the gallery control is
       automatically set to ThisItem.Image.
       Arrange the controls so that your screen resembles the following image:
            12. Press F5, or select Preview (       ).
            13. Draw something in MyPen, and then select the button.
                The first image in the gallery control displays what you drew.
            14. Add something else to your drawing, and select the button.
                The second image in the gallery control displays what you drew.
            15. Close the preview window by pressing Esc.
                In your cloud storage account, a SavePen_images folder is automatically created. This
                folder contains your saved images with IDs for their file names. To show the folder, you
                might need to refresh the browser window by, for example, pressing F5.
                  ７ Note
                  The folder name might be different if your Excel file name is different. For example, if
                  your file name is Pen.xlsx, the folder name is Pen_images.
                In SavePen.xlsx, the Image column specifies the path to the new images.
            16. Save and publish your app.
            17. Share app with others.
      Remove unused media
      To clean up your app or reduce its size, remove all unused media files by selecting Media >
      Remove unused media.
      Known limitations
         To enable better performance while loading an app, the following size restrictions apply:
           The total size of all media files uploaded to an app can't exceed 200 MB.
           The maximum size of an individual media file in an app can't exceed 64 MB.
         Supported media file types: .jpg, .jpeg, .gif, .png, .bmp, .tif, .tiff, .svg, .wav,
         .mp3, .mp4.
         When connecting your app to cloud-based storage, Cloud-storage known limitations
         apply.
      See also
         Control reference
         Working with formulas
      Last updated on 02/27/2026
         Use Copilot answer control for canvas apps
         (preview)
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
         [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
         Makers can use the Copilot answer control to set predefined questions that end users can use
         to get AI-generated information with a single click. The control is powered by Microsoft
         Copilot and is designed for mobile users to provide them with immediate answers to
         frequently asked questions.
            ） Important
            Starting February 2, 2026, this feature will be removed. Existing apps with this control will
            remain functional for a limited time but will eventually no longer be supported. Microsoft
            365 Copilot Chat in canvas apps     is the new the recommended solution for natural
            language interactions in canvas apps. To ensure a smooth transition and prevent any
            disruption, we recommend that you migrate to Microsoft 365 Copilot chat as soon as it
            becomes available in your environment.
            ７ Note
                 This is a preview feature.
                 Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
                 functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use   , and are
                 available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
                 provide feedback.
         Enable Copilot answer control for your
         environment
         To use the Copilot answer control in a canvas app, an admin must first turn on the feature,
         Allow canvas editors to insert the Copilot answer component, which allows users to receive
         an AI-powered answer to a predefined data query in their environment.
         This setting can be found in the Power Platform admin center    by going to Environments >
         [select an environment] > Settings > Product > Features. For more information, see Manage
         feature settings.
         Add Copilot answer control
         With your canvas app open for editing in Power Apps Studio:
      1. On the command bar, select Insert and then select Copilot answer (preview)
      2. When the Copilot answer (preview) control is added to the canvas app, select a data
       source from the pane. Copilot only supports Dataverse tables.
      3. On the control properties pane, select the Properties tab.
      4. In the properties, enter the Title, Questions for Copilot, and Show answer for the
       question. You can also edit other control properties as needed.
       5. When you're done, save and publish your app.
      Use Copilot answer control
      End users can regenerate responses and provide feedback on the quality of responses.
      Follow these steps to see answers generated by the Copilot answer control:
       1. Open a canvas app on Power Apps mobile and navigate to the Copilot answer control in
         your app.
       2. On the Copilot answer control select, Send.
      Last updated on 02/24/2026
       Add mixed reality controls to your
       canvas app
       Article • 09/20/2022
       Add mixed reality (MR) controls to your canvas apps to interact with the real world in
       3D.
       You can use MR controls to:
         View and manipulate 3D content with 3D object
         Overlay 3D content and 2D images on the camera feed with View in mixed reality
         Measure distance, area, and volume with Measure in mixed reality
         Identify spaces and locations by painting 3D lines and arrows with Markup in
         mixed reality
       You'll find the controls on the Insert pane, under Media and Mixed Reality:
                Tip
               The MR controls in Power Apps use Babylon and Babylon React Native. Mixed
               reality content that works in the Babylon sandbox   should work in Power Apps
               through this shared MR platform. If your content works in Babylon but not in Power
               Apps, ask a question in the Power Apps community forum      .
               Read more about our integration with Babylon     .
            Prerequisites
            The device you use to create an app with MR controls, such as your PC, doesn't need to
            be MR-capable. Mobile devices that run the app must have specific hardware and
            software to use MR controls.
            Android devices
            Android devices need to have Google Play Services for AR (known more commonly as
            ARCore) installed. ARCore should be installed automatically on MR-capable devices. If
            necessary, download Google Play Services for AR from the Google Play Store    .
            For more information about ARCore and devices that support it, see the list of
            supported devices on the Google ARCore support site     .
            The experience is a little different for devices in China, which don't ship with the Google
            Play Store. ARCore must be downloaded from specific app stores in China    .
            iOS (Apple) devices
            iPhones and iPads with specific hardware can run MR apps using the ARKit framework.
            For more information about MR and iOS devices that support it, see the list of
            supported devices on the Apple augmented reality website     . (Scroll to the bottom of
            the page to see the list.)
            Mixed reality controls
            Start adding the controls to your apps:
                  View 3D content with the 3D object control.
        View images and 3D content in the real world with the View in mixed reality
        control.
        Measure distance, area, and volume with the Measure in mixed reality control.
        Create and view 3D shapes with the View shape in mixed reality control.
        Paint 3D lines or draw 3D arrows to specify an area or asset in your environment
        with the Markup in MR control.
      See also
      Build a 3D mobile app with Power Apps in mixed reality
      Improve sales conversation by placing products directly in your customer's space with
      Mixed Reality
            View 3D content in Power Apps
            Article • 05/09/2022
            Easily add interactive 3D content to your canvas apps. You can select from a gallery of
            3D content then rotate and zoom into the model with simple gestures.
               ） Important
               Your 3D content must be in the .glb, .obj, or .stl file formats. You can convert your
               existing 3D models into the .glb file format from a variety of 3D formats.
                Tip
               The mixed reality (MR) controls in Power Apps use Babylon and Babylon React
               Native. Mixed reality content that works in the Babylon sandbox    should work in
               Power Apps through this shared MR platform. If your content works in Babylon but
               not in Power Apps, ask a question in the Power Apps Community Forum       . (Tag it
               with "mixed reality.")
            Add 3D object control to an app screen
               With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio                 :
                   1. Open the Insert tab and expand Media.
                   2. Select 3D object to place the control in the app screen, or drag the control to the
                      screen to position it more precisely.
               Key properties
               Change the 3D content control's behavior and appearance using properties. Some
               properties are only available on the Advanced tab.
                 Property          Description                                        Type          Location
                 Source            Identifies the object file to display. The 3D      Not           Properties;
                                   object control supports loading models             applicable    Advanced: Source
                                   from various sources. See Loading external
                                   3D models for details.
                 Alternative       Specifies the text to be displayed if the          String        Properties;
                 text              model can't load or if the user hovers over                      Advanced: AltText
                                   the model.
                 Property          Description                                       Type         Location
                 Background        Sets the control's background color.              Color        Properties;
                 fill                                                                picker       Advanced:
                                                                                                  BackgroundFill
                                                                                                  (accepts RGBA or
                                                                                                  HTML hexadecimal
                                                                                                  color codes)
                 Pins(Items)       Shows pins on the model at specific               Data         Properties;
                                   coordinates, provided in a data source            table        Advanced: Items
                                   (Items). If None, no pins are shown.
                 Show pins         Shows the pins described in Items.                Boolean      Properties;
                                                                                                  Advanced: ShowPins
                 MaxPins           Specifies the maximum number of pins that         Integer      Advanced
                                   can be shown on the model.
                 PinsX             Specifies the location of pins on the X axis in   Floating     Advanced
                                   3D coordinate space.                              point
                                                                                     number
                 PinsY             Specifies the location of pins on the Y axis in   Floating     Advanced
                                   3D coordinate space.                              point
                                                                                     number
                 PinsZ             Specifies the location of pins on the Z axis in   Floating     Advanced
                                   3D coordinate space.                              point
                                                                                     number
                 Show reset        Shows or hides a button that resets the           Boolean      Properties;
                 button            model to its initial state.                                    Advanced;
                                                                                                  ShowReset
                 OnModelLoad       Contains behavior formula that runs when a        Event        Advanced
                                   model is loaded.
                 OnChange          Contains behavior formula that runs when          Event        Advanced
                                   any property of the control is changed.
                 OnSelect          Contains behavior formula that runs when          Event        Advanced
                                   the user selects a pin or the control.
               Additional properties
                 Property             Description                                           Type          Location
                 Property              Description                                          Type          Location
                 ContentLanguage       Determines the display language of the control,      String        Advanced
                                       if it's different from the language used in the
                                       app.
                 DisplayMode           Determines whether the control allows user           Dropdown Advanced
                                       input (Edit), only displays data (View), or is       list
                                       disabled (Disabled).
                 Position              Places the upper-left corner of the control at       Floating      Properties;
                                       the screen coordinates specified in x and y.         point         Advanced: X,
                                                                                            number        Y
                 Size                  Determines the size of the control using the         Integer       Properties;
                                       pixel values provided in Width and Height.                         Advanced:
                                                                                                          Width,
                                                                                                          Height
                 TabIndex              Specifies the order the control is selected if the   Integer       Advanced
                                       user navigates the app using the Tab key.
                 Tooltip               Determines the text to display when the user         String        Advanced
                                       hovers over a pin.
                 Visible               Shows or hides the control.                          Boolean       Properties;
                                                                                                          Advanced:
                                                                                                          Visible
               Performance considerations
               We recommend that you use one 3D control on a screen for the best user experience.
               Multiple instances of the 3D object control on one screen will try to load their 3D
               models at the same time, which can severely degrade the performance of your app.
               Other mixed reality controls
                      View 3D content and images in the real world with the View in mixed reality
                      control.
                      Measure distance, area, and volume with the Measure in mixed reality control.
                      Create and view predefined 3D shapes with the View shape in mixed reality
                      control.
                      Paint 3D lines or draw 3D arrows to specify an area or asset in your environment
                      with the Markup in MR control.
      See also
      Create an app with 3D and mixed reality controls
              Load 3D models in canvas apps
              Article • 02/25/2023
              Load a 3D model in your canvas apps from a variety of sources. You can get models
              from attachments or media content, a direct URL, or a Base64-encoded URI (uniform
              resource identifier).
              Make sure your 3D models are optimized for use with Power Apps to minimize load
              times.
              Loading 3D models from common connectors
              Loading 3D models from attachments or media content depends on how a data
              connector is supported. To check if a data connector will work the mixed reality controls,
              add a label control to the canvas app and set the Text property to the data source. If the
              label text starts with appres://,then that data connector should work with the 3D object
              control.
                 Tip
                You can rename a .glb file extension to .jpg and directly upload it to the app
                through the Media tab.
              Load 3D models from Microsoft Lists
              First, create a list in SharePoint and add an entry for each 3D model that you want to
              have in your app.
                 1. Create a list using Microsoft Lists   .
                 2. Select the + Add column column heading and then select Show/hide columns.
                 3. Select Attachments and then select Apply.
                 4. Add an entry to the list. In the entry form, select Add attachments and select your
                   3D model file.
                 5. Repeat for each model you want to include in your app.
              Then, add a gallery to your app, set its source to the list, add a 3D object control, and
              set its source to the gallery.
                 1. Add a gallery in Power Apps Studio.
                 2. Set the gallery data source to the list.
       3. Add the 3D object control.
       4. In the Advanced properties tab, set Source to
        First(Gallery1.Selected.Attachments).Value.
      Load 3D models from an Excel workbook
      First, create an Excel workbook in OneDrive in the same folder that contains your model
      files. Add a table with rows for each model that you want to have in your app.
       1. Create an Excel workbook and save it in the OneDrive folder that contains your
        model files.
       2. In the workbook, create a table with columns named 3DModel [image] and Name.
       3. Add a row for each model you want to show in the app gallery. Enter a label for
        the model in the Name column and the relative file path to the model file in the
        3DModel [image] column.
               4. Close the workbook.
            Then, add a gallery to your app, set its source to the Excel workbook, add a 3D object
            control, and set its source to the gallery.
               1. Add a gallery in Power Apps Studio.
               2. Use the OneDrive connector to set the gallery data source to the Excel workbook.
               3. Add the 3D object control.
               4. In the Advanced properties tab, set Source to Gallery1.Selected.'3DModel'.
            Load 3D models from a URL
            The Source property of the 3D object control can be the URL of a 3D model file.
            The 3D model file must be on a server that doesn't have restrictive cross-origin resource
            sharing (CORS) settings. The hosting server must permit cross-origin requests from
            powerapps.com. You can use Dropbox or GitHub to host your files and get a CORS-
            compliant URL.
            Host your 3D model files in Dropbox
               1. Upload a 3D model file to Dropbox and select Share.
               2. Generate a public download link. For example,
                 https://www.dropbox.com/s/rANdoMGeneR4tedLink/my-file.glb?dl=0  .
               3. Modify the URL like this: replace www with dl, and remove ?dl=0 at the end.
            You now have a direct-access URL (in our example,
            https://dl.dropbox.com/s/rANdoMGeneR4tedLink/my-file.glb     ), that you can use as the
            source of your 3D control.
            Host your 3D model files in GitHub
                1. Make sure the 3D model file is stored in a public repo.
                2. Get the URL of the file. For example, https://github.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-
                  control-assets/blob/master/robot_arm.glb  .
                3. Modify the URL like this: remove /blob/, and replace https://github.com  with
                  https://raw.githubusercontent.com    .
            You now have a CORS-compliant URL (in our example,
            https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
            assets/master/robot_arm.glb   ), that you can use as the source of your 3D control.
            Load Base64-encoded 3D models
            The Source property of the 3D object control can be a Base64-encoded 3D model data
            URI that is in the format data:base64,<Base64-encoded content>.
               ） Important
               Your app may take longer to load if you use Base64-encoded models.
            You can create a Base64-encoded URI of your model using Microsoft Power Automate
            or Microsoft Dataverse.
            Create a Base64-encoded 3D model with Microsoft Power
            Automate
            Power Automate can convert 3D model files stored in a SharePoint document library to
            Base64 using the dataUri(base64(file content)) expression.
            In the following example, a document library named 3DModelBase64Library and a list
            named 3DModelBase64 exist in the same SharePoint site. The list must include a column
            of type multiple-line text.
                1. In the document library, create a flow based on the When a new file is added in
                  SharePoint, complete a custom action template.
        2. Set Library Name to 3DModelBase64Library (the name of the document library in
          this example).
        3. Add a step, Get file content from SharePoint.
        4. Set File Identifier to Identifier.
        5. Add a step, Create item from SharePoint.
        6. Set List Name to 3DModelBase64 (the name of the list in this example) and Title to
          File Name with extension.
        7. Set dataUri to the following expression:
          concat('data:model/gltf-binary;base64,',
          Last(split(dataUri(base64(body('Get_file_content'))), ',')))
       The flow runs when a file is added to the document library, converting the file to a
       Base64-encoded data URI.
       In Power Apps Studio, connect the 3D object control to the list using the SharePoint
       data connector. Set the control's Source property to the Base64-encoded data URI.
       Create a Base64-encoded 3D model with Microsoft Dataverse
       The Note (Annotation) table in Microsoft Dataverse converts any file attached in the
       Document field to Base64.
       Known constraints when loading 3D models
       from URLs in canvas apps
          The security architecture of Power Apps requires HTTPS links, not HTTP.
          The server that hosts the model files must not require authentication and must be
          CORS-compliant.
       Add pins to 3D models in Power Apps
       Article • 07/15/2022
       Add pins (shown as circular markers) to 3D models in your canvas apps. Users can add
       their own pins and view information about pins they select.
       Add predefined pins to a 3D model from an
       Excel workbook
       The easiest way to add pins to a 3D model is to load them from an Excel workbook.
       The data source for the pins must be a named table in Excel. The table must have four
       columns. Each column corresponds to a property of the 3D object control. Each row is
       plotted as a pin on the model. The rows determine the placement of the pins in a three-
       dimensional coordinate system.
        ） Important
        The mixed-reality (MR) controls in Power Apps use a left-handed coordinate
        system.
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
        Column             Corresponds to
        Label              ItemsLabels
        X                  PinsX
        Y                  PinsY
        Z                  PinsZ
       Here's an example of a table named "TestPins" that contains coordinates to place four
       pins on a 3D model:
       To try this example, start by creating a table in Excel.
         1. Copy the following sample data and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet.
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
           Label           X Pins     Y Pins     Z Pins
           Front Left      -0.2       0.01       0.2
           Front Right     0.2        0.01       0.2
           Zero            0          0          0
           X Point         0          0.72       -0.2
         2. Select one of the pasted cells. On the Home tab, select Format as Table, choose a
           style, and then select OK.
                3. On the Table Design tab under Table Name, enter a name such as TestPins.
                4. Save the workbook and close it.
             Next, add the table as a data source to display pins on a 3D model.
                1. In Power Apps Studio, insert a 3D model or select an existing model.
                2. Set the 3D object control's Source property to
                   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
                   assets/master/chair.glb   (or any other model file of your choosing).
               ７ Note
               The first instance of the 3D object control is named 3DObject1 by default and that's
               the name we'll use in the following examples. Additional instances of the control
               would be referred to as ViewIn3D2, ViewIn3D3, and so on.
                1. On the model's Properties tab, select the Pins(Items) dropdown list.
                2. Type excel in the search box, and then select Import from Excel.
                3. Locate the Excel workbook you saved earlier and open it.
                4. Select the name you gave the table in Excel and then select Connect.
                5. On the Advanced tab, find PinsX, PinsY, and PinsZ and enter the name of the
                   corresponding column in the table. (In this example, enter Label in ItemsLabels, X
                   in PinsX, and so on.) Enclose the column name in quotation marks.
             Pins appear on the model at the locations described by the coordinates.
             Show the label and coordinates of pins on a 3D
             model
             Use a data table to display the label and coordinates of selected pins in a canvas app.
            With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
               1. Open the Insert tab and expand Layout.
               2. Select Data table to place a table in the app screen, or drag the control to the
                 screen to position it more precisely.
               3. Choose to show information about all pins or only the selected pin. With the data
                 table selected:
                       Show all pins: In the Properties pane, select the Pins(Items) dropdown list
                       and select the Excel table you connected to earlier.
                       Show the selected pin only: In the Power Apps Studio expression editor,
                       enter 3DObject1.SelectedItems.
               4. On the Properties pane, select Edit fields, and then select Add field.
               5. Select the columns to show, and then select Add.
            Show the label of a selected pin on a 3D model
            Use a text box to display just the label of the selected pin in a canvas app.
            With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
               1. Open the Insert tab.
               2. Select Text label to place a text box in the app screen, or drag the control to the
                 screen to position it more precisely.
               3. In the expression editor, enter 3DObject1.Selected.Label.
            Create a collection to let users add their own
            pins to a 3D model
            If you want to allow users to place pins on a 3D model, use a collection.
            With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
               1. Open the Insert tab.
               2. Select Text input to place a text entry box in the app screen.
               3. Copy the text box and paste it three times to create four text input controls.
               4. Set the Default property for each control to X, Y, Z, and Label, respectively.
               5. Open the Tree view tab.
         6. Rename each control, as appropriate, to XCoordinate, YCoordinate, ZCoordinate,
          and LabelInput.
       Next, add a button to append the user's data to the pin collection.
         1. Open the Insert tab.
         2. Select Button to place a button in the app screen.
         3. Set the button's Text property to Add pin.
         4. Enter the following code in the button's OnSelect property, exactly as shown:
            Power Fx
            Collect( 
            PinsCollection,
              {
                X: XCoordinate.Text,
                Y: YCoordinate.Text,
                Z: ZCoordinate.Text,
                Label: LabelInput.Text
              }
            )
       Now you'll change the data source of the pins from the Excel table to the new collection.
         1. Select the 3D model.
         2. On the Properties tab, select the Pins(Items) dropdown list, and then select
          PinsCollection.
               3. On the Advanced tab, find PinsX, PinsY, and PinsZ and set them to X, Y, and Z,
                 respectively.
            When the user enters coordinates and a label and selects Add pin, a labeled pin is
            placed on the model at the entered coordinates.
            Show information about pins as they're added
            to a 3D model
            Finally, combine the previous examples by displaying information about the pins as the
            user adds them.
            With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
               1. Add a data table to the screen.
                 2. On the Properties tab, select the Pins(Items) dropdown list and select
                    PinsCollection.
                 3. Select Edit fields, and then select Add field.
                 4. Select the columns to show in the table, and then select Add.
              Other mixed reality controls
                    View 3D content in mixed reality with the View in MR control.
                    Measure distance, area, and volume with the Measuring Camera control.
                    Create and view predefined 3D shapes with the View shape in MR control.
                    Paint 3D lines or draw 3D arrows to specify an area or asset in your environment
                    with the Markup in MR control.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
            View predefined 3D shapes in mixed
            reality
            Article • 06/17/2022
            Use the View shape in MR control in a canvas app to see whether a digital cube of a
            given size fits in a real-world space. (To compare a 3D model of an object instead, use
            the View in MR control.)
            The View shape in MR control adds a button to your app. When a user selects the
            button, the app overlays a cube on the device camera feed. The cube's dimensions are
            set as a property on the control when you author the app in Microsoft Power Apps
            Studio. Users may not change the size of the cube while they use the app.
                Tip
               The mixed-reality (MR) controls work best in well-lit environments with flat-
               textured surfaces. Tracking is better on LIDAR-enabled devices.
                Tip
               The MR controls in Power Apps use Babylon and Babylon React Native. Mixed
               reality content that works in the Babylon sandbox   should work in Power Apps
               through this shared MR platform. If your content works in Babylon but not in Power
               Apps, ask a question in the Power Apps Community Forum      . (Tag it with "mixed
               reality.")
            Add a View shape in MR button to an app
            screen
            With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
               1. Open the Insert tab and expand Mixed Reality.
               2. Select View shape in MR to place the control in the app screen, or drag the control
                 to the screen to position it more precisely.
            The control is a button that's labeled with an icon of a cube and the text Place a cube.
            Change the label and hide the icon if you like in the Text and Display type properties.
      Properties
      Change the View shape in MR button's behavior and appearance using properties.
      Some properties are only available on the Advanced tab.
                 Property                 Description                            Type          Location
                 Text                     Sets the button label text.            String        Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                               Text
                 Alternative text         Specifies the text to be displayed     String        Properties; Advanced:
                                          if the model can't load or if the                    AltText
                                          user hovers over the model.
                 Display type             Determines whether the button          Drop-         Properties; Advanced:
                                          label shows an icon of a cube,         down          DisplayType
                                          text, or both.                         selection
                 Shape width              Sets the width of the cube.            Integer       Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                               ShapeWidth
                 Shape height             Sets the height of the cube.           Integer       Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                               ShapeHeight
                 Shape depth              Sets the depth of the cube.            Integer       Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                               ShapeDepth
                 Unit of measurement      Sets the measurement unit used         Drop-         Properties; Advanced:
                                          for the cube's width, height, and      down          Units
                                          depth.                                 selection
                 Enable Shadows           Determines whether shadows are         Boolean       Properties; Advanced:
                                          used to enhance the 3D effect                        EnableShadows
                                          when the cube is shown.
                Property                 Description                           Type          Location
                Enable Marker            Determines whether marker             Boolean       Properties; Advanced:
                Detection                detection will be used to to                        EnableMarkerDetection
                                         determine model position and
                                         rotation. See Use marker
                                         detection with mixed reality
                                         controls
                Visible                  Shows or hides the button.            Boolean       Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                             Visible
                Position                 Places the upper-left corner of       Floating      Properties; Advanced: X,
                                         the button at the screen              point         Y
                                         coordinates specified in x and y.     number
                Size                     Determines the size of the button     Integer       Properties; Advanced:
                                         using the pixel values provided in                  Width, Height
                                         Width and Height.
                Padding top              Sets the distance between the         Floating      Properties; Advanced:
                                         button label text and the top of      point         PaddingTop
                                         the button.                           number
                Padding bottom           Sets the distance between the         Floating      Properties; Advanced:
                                         button label text and the bottom      point         PaddingBottom
                                         of the button.                        number
                Padding left             Sets the distance between the         Floating      Properties; Advanced:
                                         button label text and the left        point         PaddingLeft
                                         edge of the button.                   number
                Padding right            Sets the distance between the         Floating      Properties; Advanced:
                                         button label text and the right       point         PaddingRight
                                         edge of the button.                   number
                Font                     Sets the name of the family of        Dropdown Properties; Advanced:
                                         fonts used for the button label       list          Font
                                         text.
                Font size                Sets the size of the button label     Floating      Properties; Advanced:
                                         text.                                 point         FontSize
                                                                               number
                Font weight              Sets the weight of the button         Dropdown Properties; Advanced:
                                         label text, either Bold, Lighter,     list          FontWeight
                                         Normal, or Semibold.
                Text alignment           Sets the horizontal alignment of      Not           Properties; Advanced:
                                         the label text in the button, either  applicable    TextAlignment
                                         Center, Justify, Left, or Right.
                Property                Description                          Type         Location
                Vertical alignment      Sets the vertical alignment of the   Dropdown Properties; Advanced:
                                        label text in the button, either     list         VerticalAlign
                                        Bottom, Middle, or Top.
                Font style              Sets the style of the button label   Not          Properties; Advanced:
                                        text, either Italic, Underline,      applicable   Italic, Underline,
                                        Strikethrough, or none.                           Strikethrough
                Border radius           Determines the corner radius of      Floating     Properties; Advanced:
                                        the button border.                   point        BorderRadius
                                                                             number
                Color                   Sets the colors of the button        Not          Properties; Advanced:
                                        label text and the button            applicable   FillColor, TextColor
                                        background.
                Border                  Determines the style, width, and     Not          Properties; Advanced:
                                        color of the button border.          applicable   BorderStyle,
                                                                                          BorderThickness,
                                                                                          BorderFillColor
                Disabled                Turns off the button but leaves it   Boolean      Properties; Advanced:
                                        visible.                                          Disabled
                Disabled color          Sets the colors of the button        Not          Properties; Advanced:
                                        label text, the button               applicable   DisabledContentColor,
                                        background, and the button                        DisabledFillColor,
                                        border if DisplayMode is                          DisabledBorderColor
                                        Disabled.
                Pressed color           Sets the colors of the button        Not          Properties; Advanced:
                                        label text, the button               applicable   PressedContentColor,
                                        background, and the button                        PressedFillColor,
                                        border when the user selects the                  PressedBorderColor
                                        button.
                Hover color             Sets the colors of the button        Not          Properties; Advanced:
                                        label text, the button               applicable   HoverContentColor,
                                        background, and the button                        HoverFillColor,
                                        border when the user hovers the                   HoverBorderColor
                                        mouse pointer over it.
                OnMixedRealitySelect    Behavior that is triggered when      Defined      Advanced
                                        user selects the button to launch    action
                                        into the mixed reality experience.
                Property                Description                         Type         Location
                OnChange                Behavior that is triggered when     Defined      Advanced
                                        any property on the button is       action
                                        changed. This is a common
                                        property across multiple controls.
                Tooltip                 Determines the text to display      String       Advanced
                                        when the user hovers over the
                                        button.
                ContentLanguage         Determines the display language     String       Advanced
                                        of the button label, if it's different
                                        from the language used in the
                                        app.
                DisplayMode             Determines whether the button       Enum         Advanced
                                        allows user input (Edit), only
                                        displays data (View), or is
                                        disabled (Disabled).
                TabIndex                Specifies the order the button is   Integer      Properties; Advanced:
                                        selected if the user navigates the               TabIndex
                                        app using the Tab key.
              Output properties
              Your app can make use of more properties when a user interacts with the View shape in
              MR control. These are known as output properties. You can use these properties in other
              controls or to customize the app experience.
                Property    Description                                                                Type
                Photos      Collects the photos captured during the mixed reality session. You can     Not
                            upload the mixed-reality photos to OneDrive and show them in a gallery.    applicable
              Other mixed reality controls
                    View 3D content with the 3D object control.
                    View images and 3D content in the real world with the View in mixed reality
                    control.
                    Measure distance, area, and volume with the Measure in mixed reality control.
                    Paint 3D lines or draw 3D arrows to specify an area or asset in your environment
                    with the Markup in MR control.
      See also
        Create an app to view a shape in mixed reality
        Use marker detection with mixed reality controls
       View 3D content or images in mixed reality
       Article • 07/15/2022
       Use the View in MR control to place a 3D model of an object or an image in a real-world space. For instance,
       preview a painting on a wall before you hang it, or see whether a 3D virtual bookcase will fit where you intend it
       to go.
       What if you don't have a 3D model of the object? Load an image of the object and set its dimensions to the
       object's size. The control applies the image as the face of a virtual cube of the desired size. Place this stand-in
       for the 3D model in your space.
       The View in MR control adds a button to your app. When a user selects the button, the app overlays a selected
       3D model (in .glb, .stl, or .obj file formats) or image (in .jpg or .png file formats) on the device camera feed.
       You can also take photos using the View in MR control and upload them to OneDrive.
        ） Important
        Your 3D content must be in the .glb, .stl, or .obj file formats. You can convert your existing 3D models into
        the .glb file format from a variety of 3D formats. 3D content compressed with Draco compression Draco is
        not supported.
         Tip
           Make sure your 3D models are optimized for use with Power Apps to minimize load times.
           The mixed-reality (MR) controls work best in well-lit environments with flat-textured surfaces. Tracking
           is better on LIDAR-enabled devices.
                     The MR controls in Power Apps use Babylon and Babylon React Native. Mixed reality content that
                     works in the Babylon sandbox    should work in Power Apps through this shared MR platform. If your
                     content works in Babylon but not in Power Apps, ask a question in the Power Apps Community
                     Forum . (Tag it with "mixed reality.")
             Add a View in MR button to an app screen
             With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
                1. Open the Insert tab and expand Mixed Reality.
                2. Select View in MR to place the control in the app screen, or drag the control to the screen to position it
                   more precisely.
             The control is a button that's labeled with an icon of a cube and the text View in MR. Change the label and hide
             the icon if you like in the Text and Display type properties.
               View different models in a single session
               The View in MR control displays one media file by default. To view different media files selected through a
               media gallery during the MR experience, use the control's Items advanced property. This property creates a
               table that lists media files the user can choose from in the mixed reality experience.
               When you use the Items property, you need to set a value for the following additional advanced properties to
               map the columns of your table:
                                                                                                                        ﾉ
                                                                                                                           Expand table
                Property                             Description
                ItemsSource (required)               Specifies which column in Items identifies the 3D model or image to show in the mixed
                                                     reality view. See Connect 3D models to Power Apps to learn more about bringing
                                                     models into Power Apps.
                ItemsLabel                           Specifies which column in Items contains the label to show in the media gallery. The
                                                     Alternative text property is used for items that don't have a label specified.
                ItemsThumbnail                       Specifies which column in Items identifies the thumbnail to show in the media gallery.
                                                     A default thumbnail is provided for items that don't have one specified.
                ItemsObjectWidth,                    Specifies an explicit size for each media item in the table. Object width, Object height,
                ItemsObjectHeight,                   and Object depth are used for items that don't have a specific size.
                ItemsObjectDepth
               To test it, let's create a media gallery that shows three different plants in a room setting. Our Items table looks
               like this:
                                                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
                label      source                                                      thumbnail
                Birds of   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-
                Paradise   pcf-control-assets/master/bird_of_paradise_blue.glb         pcf-control-assets/master/bird_of_paradise_blue.png
                Fiddle     https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-
                Leaf Fig   pcf-control-assets/master/flf_orange.glb                    pcf-control-assets/master/flf_orange.png
                Small      https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-
                Palm       pcf-control-assets/master/palm_green.glb                    pcf-control-assets/master/palm_green.png
                Tree
             With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
                1. Open the Insert tab and expand Mixed Reality.
                2. Select View in MR to place the control in the app screen, or drag the control to the screen to position it
                   more precisely.
                3. On the Advanced properties tab, select the Items property and type or paste the following code:
                     Power Fx
                     Table(
                     {
                     label: "Birds of Paradise",
                     source: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
                     assets/master/bird_of_paradise_blue.glb",
                     thumbnail: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
                     assets/master/bird_of_paradise_blue.png"
                     },
                     {
                     label: "Fiddle Leaf Fig",
                     source: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/flf_orange.glb",
           thumbnail: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/flf_orange.png"
           },
           {
           label: "Small Palm Tree",
           source: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/palm_green.glb",
           thumbnail: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
           assets/master/palm_green.png"
           }
           )
         4. Set the ItemsLabel property to "label".
         5. Set the ItemsSource property to "source".
         6. Set the ItemsThumbnail property to "thumbnail".
        ７ Note
        The Items property is set to your data source which can be a collection, from a connector, or a hardcoded
        table like in this example. The ItemsSource, ItemsLabel, and ItemsThumbnail properties are set to the
        column names of that data source within quotation marks.
         7. Save and publish the app, then open it on your mobile device to try it out.
       How objects are scaled if you resize them
           If you don't specify dimensions when you place a model, the View in MR control follows the dimensions given
           in the object file. You can resize the model by entering a value other than 0 in one or more of the control's
           width, height, and depth properties (Object width, Object height, and Object depth). How the model is scaled
           depends on how many dimensions you change.
               If all dimensions are 0 (the default), the model's size is left as it's set in the object file.
               If one dimension is set, the model is scaled equally based on the changed dimension, similar to setting
               "keep aspect ratio" when you resize an image.
               If two dimensions are set, the model scales to the two given dimensions and an average of the first two.
               For example, say you have a model that is 12 m high, 6 m wide, and 3 m deep. You set the View in MR
               control's properties as follows: Object height: 24, Object width: 9, Object depth: 0 (unchanged). The
               height increases by a factor of 2, and the width increases by a factor of 1.5. The increase in height and
               width is averaged to find the factor by which the depth should be increased: 2 + 1.5 = 3.5 / 2 = 1.75. The
               final dimensions of the model are Object height 24, Object width 9, and Object depth 5.25 (3 x 1.75).
               If all three dimensions are set, the model's size is changed to what you specified.
            ７ Note
            If the measurements don't adhere to the original aspect ratio, the model could be squashed or distorted
            when it's viewed in MR.
           Properties
           Change the View in MR button's behavior and appearance using properties. Some properties are only available
           on the Advanced tab.
                                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                                     Expand table
            Property        Description                    Type      Location
            Text            Sets the button label text.    String    Properties; Advanced: Text
                  Property                   Description                                      Type            Location
                  Alternative text           Specifies the text to be displayed if the        String          Properties; Advanced: AltText
                                             model can't load or if the user hovers over
                                             the model.
                  Display type               Determines whether the button label shows        Drop-down       Properties; Advanced: DisplayType
                                             an icon of a cube, text, or both.                selection
                  Source                     Identifies the data source (.glb, .stl, or .obj  Not             Properties; Advanced: Source
                                             file) to display.                                applicable
                  Sources List (Items)       Data source (table) that lists multiple media    Table           Properties; Advanced: Items
                                             files to view in a single mixed reality
                                             session.
                  Object width               Sets the width of the model.                     Integer         Properties; Advanced: ObjectWidth
                  Object height              Sets the height of the model.                    Integer         Properties; Advanced: ObjectHeight
                  Object depth               Sets the depth of the model.                     Integer         Properties; Advanced: ObjectDepth
                  Unit of measurement        Sets the measurement unit used for the           List            Properties; Advanced: Units
                                             model's width, height, and depth.
                  Enable shadows             Determines whether shadows are used to           Boolean         Properties; Advanced: EnableShadows
                                             enhance the 3D effect when the model is
                                             shown.
                  Enable marker              Determines whether marker detection will         Boolean         Properties; Advanced:
                  detection                  be used to determine model position and                          EnableMarkerDetection
                                             rotation. See Use marker detection with
                                             mixed reality controls
                  Visible                    Shows or hides the button.                       Boolean         Properties; Advanced: Visible
                  Position                   Places the upper-left corner of the button       Floating        Properties; Advanced: X, Y
                                             at the screen coordinates specified in x and     point
                                             y.                                               number
                  Size                       Determines the size of the button using the      Integer         Properties; Advanced: Width, Height
                                             pixel values provided in Width and Height.
                  Padding top                Sets the distance between the button label       Floating        Properties; Advanced: PaddingTop
                                             text and the top of the button.                  point
                                                                                              number
                  Padding bottom             Sets the distance between the button label       Floating        Properties; Advanced:
                                             text and the bottom of the button.               point           PaddingBottom
                                                                                              number
                  Padding left               Sets the distance between the button label       Floating        Properties; Advanced: PaddingLeft
                                             text and the left edge of the button.            point
                                                                                              number
                  Padding right              Sets the distance between the button label       Floating        Properties; Advanced: PaddingRight
                                             text and the right edge of the button.           point
                                                                                              number
                  Font                       Sets the name of the family of fonts used        List            Properties; Advanced: Font
                                             for the button label text.
                  Font size                  Sets the size of the button label text.          Floating        Properties; Advanced: FontSize
                                                                                              point
                   Property                    Description                                         Type              Location
                                                                                                   number
                   Font weight                 Sets the weight of the button label text,           List              Properties; Advanced: FontWeight
                                               either Bold, Lighter, Normal, or Semibold.
                   Text alignment              Sets the horizontal alignment of the label          Not               Properties; Advanced: TextAlignment
                                               text in the button, either Center, Justify, Left,   applicable
                                               or Right.
                   Vertical alignment          Sets the vertical alignment of the label text       List              Properties; Advanced: VerticalAlign
                                               in the button, either Bottom, Middle, or Top.
                   Font style                  Sets the style of the button label text, either     Not               Properties; Advanced: Italic,
                                               Italic, Underline, Strikethrough, or none.          applicable        Underline, Strikethrough
                   Border radius               Determines the corner radius of the button          Floating          Properties; Advanced: BorderRadius
                                               border.                                             point
                                                                                                   number
                   Color                       Sets the colors of the button label text and        Not               Properties; Advanced: FillColor,
                                               the button background.                              applicable        TextColor
                   Border                      Determines the style, width, and color of           Not               Properties; Advanced: BorderStyle,
                                               the button border.                                  applicable        BorderThickness, BorderFillColor
                   Disabled                    Turns off the button but leaves it visible.         Boolean           Properties; Advanced: Disabled
                   Disabled color              Sets the colors of the button label text, the       Not               Properties; Advanced:
                                               button background, and the button border            applicable        DisabledContentColor,
                                               if DisplayMode is Disabled.                                           DisabledFillColor,
                                                                                                                     DisabledBorderColor
                   Pressed color               Sets the colors of the button label text, the       Not               Properties; Advanced:
                                               button background, and the button border            applicable        PressedContentColor,
                                               when the user selects the button.                                     PressedFillColor, PressedBorderColor
                   Hover color                 Sets the colors of the button label text, the       Not               Properties; Advanced:
                                               button background, and the button border            applicable        HoverContentColor, HoverFillColor,
                                               when the user hovers the mouse pointer                                HoverBorderColor
                                               over it.
                   OnMixedRealitySelect        Behavior that is triggered when user selects        Defined           Advanced
                                               the button to launch into the mixed reality         action
                                               experience.
                   OnChange                    Behavior that is triggered when any                 Defined           Advanced
                                               property on the button is changed.                  action
                   Tooltip                     Determines the text to display when the             String            Advanced
                                               user hovers over the button.
                   ContentLanguage             Determines the display language of the              String            Advanced
                                               button label, if it's different from the
                                               language used in the app.
                   DisplayMode                 Determines whether the button allows user           Enum              Advanced
                                               input (Edit), only displays data (View), or is
                                               disabled (Disabled).
                   TabIndex                    Specifies the order the button is selected if       Integer           Properties; Advanced: TabIndex
                                               the user navigates the app using the Tab
                                               key.
                Output properties
                Your app can make use of more properties when a user interacts with the View in MR control. These are known
                as output properties. You can use output properties in other controls or to customize the app experience.
                                                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
                 Property    Description                                                                                          Type
                 Photos      Collects the photos captured during the mixed reality session. You can upload the mixed-reality      Not
                             photos to OneDrive and show them in a gallery.                                                       applicable
                Other mixed reality controls
                      View 3D content with the 3D object control.
                      Measure distance, area, and volume with the Measure in mixed reality control.
                      Create and view predefined 3D shapes with the View shape in mixed reality control
                      Paint 3D lines or draw 3D arrows to specify an area or asset in your environment with the Markup in MR
                      control.
                See also
                      Create an app with 3D and mixed reality controls
                      Use marker detection with mixed reality controls
                Feedback
                Was this page helpful?    Yes       No
                Provide product feedback
       Take measurements in mixed reality
       Article • 05/09/2022
       Use the Measuring camera control in a canvas app to measure distance, area, and
       volume in the real world. You can also create two- and three-dimensional freeform
       shapes and see how they fit in a real-world space.
       The Measuring camera control adds a button to your app. When a user selects the
       button, the app shows a live feed from the device camera. On-screen instructions direct
       the user to establish tracking by slowly panning the device from right to left across the
       surface to be measured. The user identifies a starting point and adds segments as
       needed until the measurement is complete. Dimensions of the measured space are
       overlaid on the camera feed.
       The user can submit the measurements for capture in the control's Measurements
       output properties. The user can also take screenshots while a space is measured. The
       screenshots are captured in the control's Photos output property.
         Tip
        The mixed-reality (MR) controls work best in well-lit environments with flat-
        textured surfaces. Tracking is better on LIDAR-enabled devices.
               Add a Measuring camera button to an app
               screen
               With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio                :
                   1. Open the Insert tab and expand Media.
                   2. Select Measuring camera to place the control in the app screen, or drag the
                      control to the screen to position it more precisely.
               The control is a button that's labeled with an icon of a cube and the text Measure.
               Change the label and hide the icon if you like in the Text and Display type properties.
               Properties
               Change the Measuring camera button's behavior and appearance using properties.
               Some properties are only available on the Advanced tab.
                 Property                    Description                      Type              Location
                 Text                        Sets the button label text.      String            Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                                Text
                 Display type                Determines whether the           Dropdown          Properties; Advanced:
                                             button label shows an icon       list              DisplayType
                                             of a cube, text, or both.
                 Unit of measurement         Sets the unit used for the       Dropdown          Properties; Advanced:
                                             dimensions.                      list              Units
                Property                    Description                      Type             Location
                Measurement type            Determines the kind of           Dropdown         Properties; Advanced:
                                            measurement the user can         list             MeasurementType
                                            make, either Distance, Area,
                                            or Volume (area plus height
                                            or depth).
                Box draw                    Locks captured                   Boolean          Properties; Advanced:
                                            measurements to                                   BoxDraw
                                            rectangular shapes.
                Enable Shadows              Determines whether               Boolean          Properties; Advanced:
                                            shadows are used to                               EnableShadows
                                            enhance the 3D effect when
                                            a shape is drawn.
                Expected                    Identifies a data source         Not              Properties; Advanced:
                measurements (Items)        (Items) in the form of a table   applicable       Items
                                            in an Excel workbook from
                                            which to get the
                                            measurements the user
                                            should capture.
                Visible                     Shows or hides the button.       Boolean          Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                              Visible
                Position                    Places the upper-left corner     Floating         Properties; Advanced:
                                            of the button at the screen      point number     X, Y
                                            coordinates specified in x
                                            and y.
                Size                        Determines the size of the       Integer          Properties; Advanced:
                                            button using the pixel values                     Width, Height
                                            provided in Width and
                                            Height.
                Padding top                 Sets the distance between        Floating         Properties; Advanced:
                                            the button label text and the    point number     PaddingTop
                                            top of the button.
                Padding bottom              Sets the distance between        Floating         Properties; Advanced:
                                            the button label text and the    point number     PaddingBottom
                                            bottom of the button.
                Padding left                Sets the distance between        Floating         Properties; Advanced:
                                            the button label text and the    point number     PaddingLeft
                                            left edge of the button.
                 Property                     Description                       Type              Location
                 Padding right                Sets the distance between         Floating          Properties; Advanced:
                                              the button label text and the     point number      PaddingRight
                                              right edge of the button.
                 Font                         Sets the name of the family       Dropdown          Properties; Advanced:
                                              of fonts used for the button      list              Font
                                              label text.
                 Font size                    Sets the size of the button       Floating          Properties; Advanced:
                                              label text.                       point number      FontSize
                 Font weight                  Sets the weight of the            Dropdown          Properties; Advanced:
                                              button label text, either Bold,   list              FontWeight
                                              Lighter, Normal, or Semibold.
                 Text alignment               Sets the horizontal               Not               Properties; Advanced:
                                              alignment of the label text in    applicable        TextAlignment
                                              the button, either Center,
                                              Justify, Left, or Right.
                 Vertical alignment           Sets the vertical alignment of    Dropdown          Properties; Advanced:
                                              the label text in the button,     list              VerticalAlign
                                              either Bottom, Middle, or Top.
                 Font style                   Sets the style of the button      Not               Properties; Advanced:
                                              label text, either Italic,        applicable        Italic, Underline,
                                              Underline, Strikethrough, or                        Strikethrough
                                              none.
                 Border radius                Determines the corner radius      Floating          Properties; Advanced:
                                              of the button border.             point number      BorderRadius
                 Color                        Sets the colors of the button     Not               Properties; Advanced:
                                              label text and the button         applicable        FillColor, TextColor
                                              background.
                 Border                       Determines the style, width,      Not               Properties; Advanced:
                                              and color of the button           applicable        BorderStyle,
                                              border.                                             BorderThickness,
                                                                                                  BorderFillColor
                 Disabled                     Turns off the button but          Boolean           Properties; Advanced:
                                              leaves it visible.                                  Disabled
                 Disabled color               Sets the colors of the button     Not               Properties; Advanced:
                                              label text, the button            applicable        DisabledContentColor,
                                              background, and the button                          DisabledFillColor,
                                              border if DisplayMode is                            DisabledBorderColor
                                              Disabled.
               Property                   Description                    Type            Location
               Pressed color              Sets the colors of the button  Not             Properties; Advanced:
                                          label text, the button         applicable      PressedContentColor,
                                          background, and the button                     PressedFillColor,
                                          border when the user selects                   PressedBorderColor
                                          the button.
               Hover color                Sets the colors of the button  Not             Properties; Advanced:
                                          label text, the button         applicable      HoverContentColor,
                                          background, and the button                     HoverFillColor,
                                          border when the user hovers                    HoverBorderColor
                                          the mouse pointer over it.
               OnMixedRealitySelect       Contains code that runs        Event           Advanced
                                          when the user exits the
                                          measurement screen with
                                          new results.
               OnChange                   Contains code that runs        Event           Advanced
                                          when a button property is
                                          changed.
               OnSelect                   Contains code that runs        Event           Advanced
                                          when the user selects the
                                          button.
               ItemsLabels                Identifies the column in       ColumnName Advanced
                                          Items that contains the
                                          labels for the measurements
                                          users should capture.
               ItemsMeasurementType       (Optional) Identifies the      ColumnName Advanced; see
                                          column in Items that                           MeasurementType
                                          contains a string (Distance,
                                          Area, Volume, or Freeform)
                                          that specifies the type of
                                          measurement users should
                                          capture.
               ItemsBoxDraw               (Optional) Identifies the      ColumnName Advanced; see
                                          column in Items that                           BoxDraw
                                          contains a string (True or
                                          False) that locks
                                          measurements to
                                          rectangular shapes.
               Tooltip                    Determines the text to         String          Advanced
                                          display when the user hovers
                                          over a visual.
             Property               Description                Type          Location
             ContentLanguage        Determines the display     String        Advanced
                                    language of the control, if
                                    it's different from the
                                    language used in the app.
             DisplayMode            Determines whether the     Enum          Advanced
                                    control allows user input
                                    (Edit), only displays data
                                    (View), or is disabled
                                    (Disabled).
             TabIndex               Specifies the order the    Integer       Properties; Advanced:
                                    control is selected if the user          Tab index
                                    navigates the app using the
                                    Tab key.
            Output properties
            Your app can make use of more properties when a user interacts with the View in MR
            control. These are known as output properties. You can use these properties in other
            controls or to customize the app experience.
             Property       Description
             Photos         Captures, in a collection, information about photos the user takes while a space
                            is measured. Use the collection to upload mixed-reality photos to OneDrive and
                            show them in a gallery.
             Measurements   Captures, in a table, the measured distances, volumes, and areas.
             Segments       Captures, in a table, information about segments in a measured object.
            The Measurements table has the following columns:
                 Label: A string that identifies the measurement
                 Id: A number that uniquely identifies the measurement
                 Units: A string that identifies the unit of the measurement
                 Height: A number that represents the height of the measured volume (0 if a 2D
                 area was measured)
                 Length: A number that represents the total length of the measured perimeter or
                 path
                 BoundingWidth: A number that represents the minimum width that bounds the
                 shape
          BoundingDepth: A number that represents the minimum depth that bounds the
          shape
          Area: A number that represents the estimated area of the measured shape in units
          squared
          Volume: A number that represents the estimated volume of the measured shape in
          units cubed
       The Segments table has the following columns:
          Length: A number that represents the total distance of a segment in the specified
          units
          DirectionX: A number that represents the X direction of the segment in world (3D)
          space
          DirectionY: A number that represents the Y direction of the segment in world(3D)
          space (typically 0)
          DirectionZ: A number that represents the Z direction of the segment in world (3D)
          space
       Learn more about how to use output properties of the Measuring camera control in
       your apps: Validate measurements in mixed reality using a spatial test filter
       Other mixed reality controls
          View 3D content with the 3D object control.
          View images and 3D content in the real world with the View in mixed reality
          control.
          Create and view predefined 3D shapes with the View shape in mixed reality
          control
          Paint 3D lines or draw 3D arrows to specify an area or asset in your environment
          with the Markup in MR control.
       See also
       Create an app using the Measuring Camera control
       Test whether an object will fit in a space
       using mixed reality
       Article • 12/16/2022
       You can use the Measuring Camera control to determine whether an object of a known
       size will fit in a particular space. In this article, we'll create a canvas app to do just that.
         Tip
        The mixed-reality (MR) controls work best in well-lit environments with flat-
        textured surfaces. Tracking is better on LIDAR-enabled devices.
       Add minimum dimensions input fields to a
       canvas app
       First, we’ll create a blank canvas app. Then we'll add a way for the user to enter the
       minimum dimensions to test against (that is, the smallest space that will hold the object
       we want to fit).
        1. Create a blank canvas app.
        2. Select the Insert tab. Insert and place three Text label controls on the screen.
        3. Change the Text property of the labels to Minimum Width, Minimum Depth, and
         Minimum Height, respectively.
        4. Select the Insert tab. Insert three Text Input controls, and place them to the right
         of the three labels.
        5. Rename the text input controls to minWidth, minDepth, and minHeight,
         respectively.
                6. Select all three text input controls. Change the group's Format property to
                   Number and set the Default property to 1.0.
             Add and bind the Measuring camera control
             Next, we’ll add the Measuring camera control to allow the user to measure a three-
             dimensional space. We'll bind the measurements to a data table for later use.
                1. Select the Insert tab, and expand Media.
                2. Select Measuring camera to place the control in the app screen. Drag the control
                   near the bottom of the screen.
                3. Change the control's properties as follows:
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
                    Property name         Value                                          Where
                    Unit of measurement   Feet or Meters                                 Select on the
                                                                                         Properties tab
                    Measurement type      Volume                                         Select on the
                                                                                         Properties tab
                    Box draw              On                                             Select on the
                                                                                         Properties tab
                    Items                 Table({label:"Test Volume"})                   Enter on the
                                                                                         Advanced tab
                    ItemsLabels           "label"                                        Enter on the
                                                                                         Advanced tab
                    Property name          Value                                            Where
                    OnMixedRealitySelect   Set(testVolume,                                  Enter on the
                                           LookUp(MeasureInMR1.Measurements, Label =        Advanced tab
                                           "Test Volume"));
             The Items, ItemsLabels, and OnMixedRealitySelect properties of the Measuring camera
             control should look like the following examples when you're done:
             The formula in Items captures the dimensions of the measured space in a data table
             named "Test Volume." The formula in OnMixedRealitySelect sets a variable named
             "testVolume" to the values captured in the "Test Volume" table.
       Display the results
       Finally, we'll add text labels to display the measurements that were taken and the result
       of the test (that is, whether the object will fit in the measured space).
         1. Select the Insert tab. Insert and place four Text label controls on the screen.
         2. Change the Text property of the label controls as follows. (Hint: Copy each formula
          and paste it in the formula bar or on the Advanced properties tab, whichever you
          prefer.)
             First label:
               Power Fx
                   If(IsBlankOrError(testVolume), "No Measurement captured",
                       If(testVolume.Height >= Value(minHeight.Text) &&
                       ((testVolume.BoundingWidth >= Value(minWidth.Text) && 
               testVolume.BoundingDepth >= Value(minDepth.Text)) ||
                       (testVolume.BoundingWidth >= Value(minDepth.Text) && 
               testVolume.BoundingDepth >= Value(minWidth.Text))),
                       "Fit Test Succeeded", "Fit Test Failed"))
             This formula sets the label text according to whether the test succeeded or
             failed, based on the minimum dimensions required to hold the object we
             want to fit. If the test didn't run, either because no measurements were
             captured or an error occurred, the label text reflects that.
             Second label:
               Power Fx
                   Concatenate("Bounding Width: ", 
               Text(testVolume.BoundingWidth))
             This formula sets the label text to "Bounding Width:" followed by the width
             dimension of the measured space.
             Third label:
               Power Fx
                   Concatenate("Bounding Depth: ", 
               Text(testVolume.BoundingDepth))
             This formula sets the label text to "Bounding Depth: " followed by the depth
             dimension of the measured space.
             Fourth label:
               Power Fx
                   Concatenate("Bounding Height: ", Text(testVolume.Height))
             This formula sets the label text to "Bounding Height: " followed by the height
             dimension of the measured space.
       The app screen should now look like this:
       Test the app
       Select the preview button to run the app in preview mode. Select Measuring camera to
       populate the labels with data. To verify that the label bindings are working, enter new
       values in the text input fields.
       The values for Bounding Width and Bounding Depth can be swapped when you
       perform the test.
       Save and publish your app. Open it on a mixed-reality–enabled device to test whether
       an object with the specified dimensions will fit within the bounds of any measurement
       captured.
       Filtering a data source
       The app we created tests a single set of dimensions that are specified by the user when
       the app runs. However, you can extend it to test against any data source by applying the
       formula as a Filter predicate.
       For example, let's say that our app contains a reference to a Dataverse table named
       Products that includes three columns: Width, Depth, and Height (corresponding to
       each product's dimensions). To filter the collection to show only the measurements that
       would fit in a measured volume, we can apply the following formula.
         Power Fx
                    If(IsBlankOrError(testVolume), Products,
                    Filter(Products, testVolume.Height >= Height &&
                        ((testVolume.BoundingWidth >= Width && testVolume.BoundingDepth >= 
                Depth) ||
                        (testVolume.BoundingWidth >= Depth && testVolume.BoundingDepth >= 
                Width))))
              See also
                    3D object control
                    Measuring Camera control
                    View shape in MR control
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Use the Measure in MR control to take
       measurements
       Article • 07/15/2022
       Measure the distance, area, and volume of your physical space using your device
       camera.
       To use the measurement feature, your app maker needs to enable the Measure in MR
       control for your canvas app. Depending on how your app maker has configured the app,
       the type of measurements can vary as shown in the example below.
       Basic navigation
       It's easy to get around and take measurements of your space. The following illustration
       shows the primary navigation elements.
      Legend
       1. Camera: Take a picture of your current view. The picture can be used by your
        canvas app but isn't viewable when you're in a mixed reality experience.
       2. Undo: Rewinds the last measurement action taken and returns to the state before
        the last add, reset, or delete.
       3. Add: Select to start a new measurement or add a new measurement point. When
        you're done measuring the button changes to a checkmark button that you select
        to complete your measurement.
       4. Overview: Opens a list with details of the items you have measured.
       5. Submit: When you're done taking your measurement(s), use the Submit button to
        close the mixed reality experience and send the measurement(s) to your canvas
                    app. The button is grayed out if there are no measurements or when you're in the
                    process of taking measurements.
                  6. Overview: Opens a list with details of the items you have measured.
                  7. Reset: Clear all your measurements at once.
                  8. Exit: Leave the mixed reality experience and return to your canvas app.
              Take a measurement
                  1. Open your canvas app and select the Measure in MR button.
                  2. Follow the instructions on the screen by moving your device until it vibrates, and
                    white dots appear. The white dot with a circle is the starting point of your
                    measurement.
                  3. Select     to start a new measurement. Then follow these steps depending on the
                    type of measurement you're taking:
                           Distance
                           a. Select     and then slowly move the dot to where you want the
                              measurement to end.
                           b. Select the checkmark button to finish the measurement.
                           c. Continue taking measurements, or select Submit to save your final
                              measurements and return to your canvas app.
                           Area
                           a. Select     to add points and outline the area that you want to measure.
           b. Connect the last dot to the first dot to complete the measurement. When
            you're done, select the checkmark button.
           c. Continue taking measurements, or select Submit to save your final
            measurements and return to your canvas app.
                           Volume
                           a. Select     to add points and outline the base of the volume that you want
                              to measure.
           b. Connect the last dot to the first dot to complete the measurement.
           c. Move your device upwards and select the desired height and then select
            the checkmark button.
           d. Continue taking measurements, or select Submit to save your final
            measurements and return to your canvas app.
             ７ Note
             If your app has Box Draw enabled then you can only measure volume
             by a rectangular prism. To take this measurement select four points;
             three to draw the base and one for the height. 
                           Freeform
                           a. Select     to measure distance, multi-segment, area, and volume all
                              together.
                           b. Connect the last dot to the first dot to complete the measurement.
           c. Keep the dot at the last point and tap the green checkmark to finish your
            current measurement. Continue taking other measurements, or if you are
            done, select Submit to return to your canvas app.
            The same rectangle can be part of a volume measurement. Instead of
            selecting the last point you added, rotate your phone upwards to select a
            height and then tap the green checkmark. Continue taking other
            measurements, or if you are done, select Submit to return to your canvas
            app.
       ７ Note
       If your app has Box Draw enabled, then in freeform you can only measure in a
       rectangular area and volume.
      track of your measurements
      When you take measurements, you can always go back and review your measurements.
       1. At the top select the measurement overview or select the overview button.
       2. If your app maker has given you specific measurements to take, you can see their
        types here, beneath their label. Select the arrow next to measurement to view
        more details.
       3. On the Measurement Inputs screen, you can do the following:
           Select an incompleted measurement to measure it immediately.
           Select the delete button to clear or remove a measurement.
           Select the close button or overview button to continue measuring where you
           left off.
            Take and upload mixed-reality photos
            Article • 08/05/2022
            In this article, we'll create an app that can take photos of a mixed-reality session and
            upload them to a folder on OneDrive. We'll use the View in MR control in this example,
            but the View shape in MR and Measuring camera controls would work as well.
            We'll cover the following tasks:
                 Adding a 3D object control to view and manipulate a sample 3D object
                 Connecting the 3D object control to a View in MR control to view the 3D object in
                 the real world
                 Adding a gallery control to view photos taken with the View in MR control
                 Uploading the photos to OneDrive with a Microsoft Power Automate flow
                 Uploading photos captured in mixed-reality to Dataverse
            Prerequisites
                 Create a blank canvas app.
                 Create a folder called MRPhotos on OneDrive. You'll use this folder to store your
                 uploaded photos.
                Tip
               The mixed-reality (MR) controls work best in well-lit environments with flat-
               textured surfaces. Tracking is better on LIDAR-enabled devices.
            Add a button to take a photo of a 3D object in
            mixed reality
            This example has three parts. First, we'll add a button that lets users take a photo of a
            3D object in a mixed reality experience.
            Insert a 3D object control
            With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
               1. Open the Insert tab and expand Media.
               2. Select 3D object to place a 3D object on the app screen. Drag the control to the
                  screen to position it more precisely.
                  The control comes with a transparent cube shape. If you like, change the control's
                  Source property to load a different 3D model. In this example, we'll use the URL
                  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-
                  assets/master/robot_arm.glb  .
            Insert and connect a View in MR control
               1. Open the Insert tab and expand Mixed Reality.
               2. Select View in MR to place the control on the app screen, or drag the control to
                  the screen to position it more precisely.
               3. Change the control's Source property to 3DObject1.Source. (3DObject1 is the
                  name of the 3D object control we added earlier.) This expression directs the View
                  in MR control to overlay the 3D model on the device camera feed.
         4. Save and publish the app and run it on your mobile device.
         5. Select View in MR to view the 3D object in mixed reality. Select the camera icon to
          take a photo of the MR view.
       Insert a gallery control to view photos taken in
       the app
       Next, we'll add a gallery so users can view the photos they've taken.
         1. Edit your app again. Open the Insert tab and place a Vertical gallery control on
          the screen.
         2. Change the control's Items property to ViewInMR1.Photos. (ViewInMR1 is the
          name of the View in MR control we added earlier.)
         3. Optionally, change the gallery's Layout property to Image and title.
       4. Preview the app and select View in MR to generate a sample photo. The gallery
        populates with a sample picture.
       ７ Note
       If users exit the MR view to see the gallery, then enter the MR view again and take
       more photos, the new photos will replace the ones they took earlier.
      Add a larger overlay to the thumbnail images in the
      gallery
      To make the photos in the gallery easier to see, you can add a full-size overlay that
      appears when the user selects a thumbnail image.
       1. Edit your app again. Open the Insert tab and expand Media.
       2. Select Image to place an image control on the screen. Move and size it according
        to how you want the larger photo to appear when a thumbnail image is selected.
       3. Change the image control's properties as follows: | Property | Value | | - | - | |
        OnSelect | UpdateContext({vVisibleImageZoom:false}) | | Image |
        Gallery1.Selected.Image2 (assuming the gallery control is Gallery1 and the first
        thumbnail image is Image2) | Visible | vVisibleImageZoom
       4. Select the first thumbnail image in the gallery control. Change its OnSelect
        property to UpdateContext({vVisibleImageZoom:true}).
        5. Save and publish the app and run it on your mobile device.
        6. Select View in MR, and then select the camera icon to take a photo. Select the
         back arrow at the top of the screen to exit the MR view.
        7. Select the thumbnail in the gallery to show a larger version of the photo. Select the
         image to hide it.
       Upload photos to OneDrive with a Power
       Automate flow
       Last, we'll create a workflow using the Power Automate pane. The workflow uploads
       photos from the app to a folder named MRPhotos on OneDrive.
       Create a flow in Power Automate
        1. Edit your app. On the app authoring menu, select Power Automate > Create new
         flow.
        2. Search for and select the Power Apps button template.
       3. In the Create your flow window, select Edit in advanced mode.
       4. Select Power Apps button at the top of the window and enter a new name for
        your flow. In this example, we'll name the flow Upload MR Photo.
       5. Select Power Apps button at the top of the window and enter a new name for your
        flow. In this example, we'll name the flow Upload MR Photo.
       6. Search for PowerApps (V2) and select the PowerApps (V2) trigger.
       7. Select Add an input, and then select File.
       8. Change the label File Content to Image.
       9. Select New step. Search for OneDrive Create file and select the Create file action.
       10. In Folder Path, select the folder icon and navigate to the MRPhotos folder you
        created earlier.
       11. In File Name, enter @{triggerBody()?['file']?['name']} (Your text changes to
        "file.name.")
       12. In File Content, enter @{triggerBody()['file']['contentBytes']} (Your text changes to
        "Image.")
       13. Save your flow.
      The complete flow should look like this:
      Connect the workflow to a button in your app
       1. Return to your app in Power Apps Studio. Your flow is now listed under Available
        flows.
       2. Open the Insert tab and select Button. Place the button control on the screen and
        resize it as needed.
       3. Change the button control's Text property to Upload photos.
       4. In the formula bar at the top of the Power Apps window, select the OnSelect
        property. Select Action > Power Automate > Upload MR Photo.
        The button control's OnSelect property changes to UploadMRPhoto.Run(.
       5. To upload the last photo taken, paste the following code after the opening
        parenthesis: {file:{name:GUID() & ".png",
        contentBytes:Last(ViewInMR1.Photos).ImageURI}})
            If you placed the button control inside the gallery, paste the following code
            instead: {file: {name:GUID() & ".png", contentBytes:ThisItem.ImageURI}})
            To make the button upload all the photos taken, delete UploadMRPhoto.Run( and
            paste the following code: ForAll(ViewInMR1.Photos, UploadMRPhoto.Run({file:
            {name:GUID() & ".png", contentBytes:ImageURI}}))
           6. Preview the app and select View in MR, and then select Upload photos. Check the
            MRPhotos folder on OneDrive and confirm that the sample photo has been
            uploaded.
         Add offline capability to your app
         You can use your app even when you have limited or no network connectivity using the
         SaveData and LoadData functions.
         Upload photos captured in mixed-reality to
         Dataverse
         You can add photos to Dataverse tables through an Image data type column. Image
         columns in Dataverse have two required fields - Full and Value - which can be set to the
         ImageURI output of the MR controls.
         For example, if you wanted to upload the first photo captured by the Markup in MR
         control to a Dataverse column called Image:
          Power Fx
              Image: {Full: First(MarkupInMR.Photos).ImageURI, Value: 
          First(MarkupInMR.Photos).ImageURI}
         See also
            3D object control
            Measuring Camera control
            View shape in MR control
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
             Load 3D models from CGTrader into mixed
             reality controls (preview)
             Article • 07/15/2022
             [This article is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
               ） Important
               This is a preview feature.
               Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted functionality.
               These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early
               access and provide feedback.
             Want to build apps with mixed-reality 3D content without having to create your own 3D
             models? Use the CGTrader connector to import 3D content from CGTrader into your canvas
             apps. CGTrader offers a library of thousands of free and premium 3D models. Browse and load
             models inside your app, and then use them with the 3D object and View in MR controls.
             The connector provides a no-code replacement for working with the CGTrader API. Using
             actions, apps send requests to the CGTrader API and fetch model data. For more information,
             see the Connectors overview.
             Prerequisites
             Request an API key (OAuth client ID and client secret) at
             https://www.cgtrader.com/developers     . Be sure to store your API key in a secure location.
             Create a CGTrader connection
             You'll need to create a CGTrader connection in Power Apps after you receive your API key. In
             this example, we'll create a connection on the Power Apps home page. You can also create a
             connection when you're editing an app in Power Apps Studio.
                Tip
               A connection is an instance of a connector. You can create multiple connections with
               different configurations.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
       2. In the navigation bar, select Data > Connections > New connection.
       3. Search for and select CGTrader (preview).
       4. Enter the Client ID and Client Secret you received from CGTrader.
      A CGTrader connection is now listed on the Connections page.
             Add a CGTrader connection to your canvas app
                1. Edit or create a canvas app.
                2. In the navigation bar, select Data > Add data. Search for and select CGTrader.
                3. Select the connection you created earlier.
             Load CGTrader models directly into 3D object or
             View in MR controls
                1. Find and select a model on the CGTrader website  .
                2. Note the supported file types and Model ID.
                3. In Power Apps Studio, add a 3D object or View in MR control to the app screen.
                4. Set the control's Source property to CGTrader.GetModel(model_id, "file_type"), where
                  model_id is the ID of the model you selected, and file_type is one of the supported file
                  types.
             Connector actions
             The following table lists the most common CGTrader connector actions and examples. For a
             list of all connector actions, their parameters, and return types, see the CGTrader connector
             reference.
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
               Action         Description  Example
               GetModel       Downloads    CGTrader.GetModel(model_id, "file_type")
                              a 3D object
                              with the
                              given
                              Model ID
                              and file
                              type.
               GetModelInfo   Gets         CGTrader.GetModelInfo(model_id)
                              information
                              about a 3D
                              object with
                              the given
                              Model ID.
               SearchModels   Searches     CGTrader.SearchModels({keywords:"keywords",extensions:"file_types"}).Models
                              for models
                              from
                              CGTrader
                              based on
                              the given
                              filters.
                              Consider
                              binding this
                              action to
               Action         Description  Example
                              the items in
                              a gallery.
               GetCategories  Gets         CGTrader.GetCategories()
                              available
                              category
                              names and
                              Model IDs.
             See also
                   View 3D content in canvas apps
                   View 3D content or images in the real world
            Use the Markup in MR control in Power
            Apps (preview)
            Article • 07/15/2022
            [This article is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
               ） Important
               This is a preview feature.
               Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
               functionality. These features are available before an official release so that
               customers can get early access and provide feedback.
            Add the Markup in MR control in your app to allow users to add markups to visually
            specify an area or a particular asset in their environment. Users can instantly place mixed
            reality markups such as arrows, add drawings, and then take photos of the marked-up
            object.
            The Markup in MR control creates a Markup in MR button in your mixed reality app.
            When a user selects the Markup in MR button, it shows a live camera feed of the device.
            A user can identify points of interest to begin inking or adding arrows directly on the
            object.
            Ink and arrows will scale appropriately depending on the distance from the objects.
            When you exit the Markup in MR screen screenshots are captured in the control's
            Photos output property.
                Tip
               The mixed-reality (MR) controls work best in well-lit environments with flat-
               textured surfaces. Tracking is better on LIDAR-enabled devices.
                Tip
               The MR controls in Power Apps use Babylon and Babylon React Native. Mixed
               reality content that works in the Babylon sandbox   should work in Power Apps
               through this shared MR platform. If your content works in Babylon but not in Power
               Apps, ask a question in the Power Apps Community Forum      . (Tag it with "mixed
               reality.")
            Use Markup in MR
            When a user selects the Markup in MR button, they will be prompted to move their
            phone side-to-side for better object or area detection. Once an object or area is
            detected the user can start using the markup toolbar.
            Add an arrow
            To position an arrow:
                 Make sure the arrow is selected in the markup toolbar.
                 Move your device around to position the dot on the object or area you want. to
                 highlight
                 Select to place the ghost arrow on your device screen.
                 To rotate the arrow, select and drag the arrow in a circular motion (360 degrees).
            Inking
            To determine where you start drawing:
                 Make sure the ink pen is selected in the markup toolbar.
                 Select and drag on the screen to start drawing.
            Add the Markup in MR control
            Insert the control into your app as you normally would for any other button control.
            With an app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
               1. Open the Insert tab.
               2. Expand Mixed reality.
               3. Select the control Markup in MR to place it in the center of the app screen or drag
                 and drop it to position it anywhere on the screen.
      You can modify the control with several properties.
        Tip
       Some properties are only available under More options in the Advanced tab on
       the Markup in MR pane.
                Property                 Description                                    Type         Location
                Photos                   The photos captured during the mixed           Not          Not
                                         reality session.                               Applicable   Applicable
                                         Note: You can upload the mixed-reality                      (Output
                                         photos to OneDrive and show them in a                       property only)
                                         gallery.
                OnMixedRealitySelect     Behavior that is triggered when exiting the    Defined      Advanced
                                         MR experience with new results.                Action
                OnChange                 Behavior that is triggered when any            Defined      Advanced
                                         property on the button is changed.             Action
               Additional properties
                Property                 Description
                BorderColor              The color of a control's border.
               Property                Description
               BorderStyle             Whether a control's border is Solid, Dashed, Dotted, or None.
               BorderThickness         The thickness of a control's border.
               Color                   The color of text in a control.
               DisplayMode             Whether the control allows user input (Edit), only displays data (View), or
                                       is disabled (Disabled).
               DisabledBorderColor     The color of a control's border if the control's DisplayMode property is
                                       set to Disabled.
               DisabledColor           The color of text in a control if its DisplayMode property is set
                                       to Disabled.
               DisabledFill            The background color of a control if its DisplayMode property is set
                                       to Disabled.
               FillColor               The background color of a control.
               Font                    The name of the family of fonts in which text appears.
               FontStyle               The style of the text in the control: None, Strikethrough, Underline,
                                       or Italic.
               FontSize                The font size of the text that appears on a control.
               FontWeight              The weight of the text in a control: Bold, Semibold, Normal, or Lighter
               Height                  The distance between a control's top and bottom edges.
               HoverBorderColor        The color of a control's border when the user keeps the mouse pointer on
                                       that control.
               HoverColor              The color of the text in a control when the user keeps the mouse pointer
                                       on it.
               HoverFill               The background color of a control when the user keeps the mouse
                                       pointer on it.
               PaddingBottom           The distance between text in a control and the bottom edge of that
                                       control.
               PaddingLeft             The distance between text in a control and the left edge of that control.
               PaddingRight            The distance between text in a control and the right edge of that control.
               PaddingTop              The distance between text in a control and the top edge of that control.
               PressedBorderColor      The color of a control's border when the user taps or clicks that control.
               Property              Description
               PressedColor          The color of text in a control when the user taps or clicks that control.
               PressedFill           The background color of a control when the user taps or clicks that
                                     control.
               TabIndex              Keyboard navigation order.
               TextAlignment         The alignment of the text: Center, Left, Right, or Justify
               Tooltip               Explanatory text that appears when the user hovers over a control.
               VerticalAlign         The location of text on a control in relation to the vertical center of that
                                     control: Middle, Top, or Bottom
               Visible               Whether a control appears or is hidden.
               Width                 The distance between a control's left and right edges.
               X                     The distance between the left edge of a control and the left edge of its
                                     parent container (or the screen if there's no parent container).
               Y                     The distance between the top edge of a control and the top edge of the
                                     parent container (or the screen if there's no parent container).
             Output properties
               Property  Description                                                            Type
               Photos    Collects the photos captured during the mixed reality session. You     Not
                         can upload the mixed-reality photos to OneDrive and show them in a     applicable
                         gallery.
             Other Mixed Reality controls
                   View 3D content with the View in 3D control.
                   View images and 3D content in the real world with the View in mixed
                   reality control.
                   Create and view predefined 3D shapes with the View shape in mixed
                   reality control.
                   Measure distance, area, and volume with the Measure in mixed reality control.
       Use marker detection with mixed-reality
       controls (preview)
       Article • 07/15/2022
       [This article is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
        ） Important
        This is a preview feature.
        Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
        functionality. These features are available before an official release so that
        customers can get early access and provide feedback.
       Use physical markers to improve the precision and persistence of media that's placed
       using the View in MR and View shape in MR controls. This topic covers how to enable
       marker detection and how to add markers to your space.
       Prerequisites
       In addition to the standard device compatibility requirements outlined in add mixed
       reality controls to your canvas app, marker detection requires physical markers to be
       present in your space.
       To create a marker, print out the image below or display the image on a monitor or
       tablet. For best results, the marker should be printed in portrait orientation on standard
       A4 or 8.5" x 11" letter paper. Ensure that the marker is fully visible and not cut off on
       either the top or bottom. The marker should be approximately 20 x 20 cm for optimal
       tracking speed and accuracy.
                                                 
            Enable marker detection
            Enable marker detection for the View in MR and View shape in MR controls.
            With an app open for editing in Power Apps Studio   :
               1. Open the Insert tab.
               2. Expand Mixed reality.
               3. Select the View shape in MR or Markup in MR control.
               4. On the Properties tab, set the Enable marker detection property to On in the
                 properties panel or the formula bar.
       Use marker detection on device
       When you enter the mixed-reality experience, you'll be prompted to point your device
       at a physical marker in your space. To quickly acquire tracking, make sure the marker is
       fully in frame and about 2-5 feet from the device.
      Once the marker is detected, the loaded media will be automatically aligned and placed
      directly on top of the marker. You can manipulate the media's position or rotate it by
      using the on-screen gestures or by physically moving the marker.
      If no marker is present or detection is taking too long, you can turn off the marker
      detection by selecting the highlighted marker detection button.
      See also
        View in MR control
        View shape in MR control
             Add geospatial controls to your canvas apps
             Article • 12/16/2022
             Add interactive maps with dynamic routing and address lookup to your canvas apps using geospatial
             controls.
             Use the following prebuilt controls for geospatial applications:
                  Interactive map
                  Address input
             The map control runs with limited features available by default. You can enable additional map control
             features and support for the address input control by turning on full support in the Power Platform admin
             center. Refer to the table at the bottom of the page for more details on data usage in limited and full
             support.
             Prerequisites for full support
             Before you can use geospatial features in your apps, your Power Platform administrator has a couple of
             tasks to complete:
                1. Enable geospatial features in the Power Platform admin center for the environment you intend to use.
                  The geospatial features require their own terms of service, which your admin must review and agree to.
                2. Make sure the geospatial controls aren't blocked by the environment's data loss prevention policies.
               ） Important
               Geospatial controls are not available in Power Apps US Government.
             Enable geospatial features for the environment
             If you don't have administrative access to the Power Platform admin center, ask your admin to enable
             geospatial features for you. You can similarly follow these steps to disable geospatial features.
                1. Open the Power Platform admin center  .
                2. On the Environments tab, select the environment you want to use for your apps, and then select
                  Settings.
        3. Expand Product, and then select Features.
        4. Under Map and address services, turn on the Full toggle. You can use the toggles in this section to
         similarly turn on and off limited support as well.
        5. Read the terms of service. Select I agree to the terms of service, and then select Enable.
          ） Important
          The terms of service must be agreed to before you can use all geospatial features in your apps.
          Mapping capabilities are provided by a third party. Microsoft shares address and location queries,
          but not customer or user names, with the provider. Requests are sent securely over HTTPS or
          aren't exposed to the public Internet.
        6. Select Save.
              Review the environment's data loss prevention policies
              Geospatial controls use the Spatial Services connector to fetch map tiles and to look up and geocode
              addresses. Your Power Platform admin must make sure data loss prevention policies that apply to that
              connector don’t conflict with the policies that affect the controls. Learn more about data loss prevention
              policies for Power Platform.
              Privacy and security considerations
                   Power Apps doesn’t link search queries to any user or tenant when shared with TomTom, and the
                   shared search queries can’t be used to identify individuals or tenants.
                   Azure Maps doesn't store the request information sent by you. For more information about Azure
                   Maps compliance, see Azure global compliance
                   Requests sent between TomTom and Azure Maps are not exposed over the public Internet.
                   Requests sent between apps you create with the geospatial controls and Azure Maps are sent over
                   HTTPS.
                   The following table describes the user data that Power Apps sends to Azure Maps, Bing Maps, and
                   TomTom on full support:
                                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
                    Control   Feature     Data         Purpose           Sent    Sent   Sent to    User        Enabled  Enabled
                                                                         to      to     TomTom identifiers     in Full  in
                                                                         Azure   Bing              or          Support  Limited
                                                                         Maps    Maps              tracking             Support
                                                                                                   data sent
                    Map       Show map    Coordinates  To show the map   Yes     No     Yes        No          Yes      Yes
                              tiles       in and       tiles in the map
                                          around the   view.
                                          map view
                    Map       Show pins   Pin and      Feature does not  No      No     No         No          Yes      Yes
                              and shapes  shape        require sending
                              from        coordinates  coordinate data.
                              coordinates
                    Map       Show pins   Pins and     To translate      No      Yes    Yes        No          Yes      No
                              and route   route        addresses to
                              waypoints   waypoint     latitude/longitude
                                          addresses    coordinates, and
                                                       show them on
                                                       the map.
                    Map       Show        Route        To calculate      Yes     No     Yes        No          Yes      No
                              routes      waypoint     routes between
                                          coordinates  waypoints.
                    Address   Address     Address      To show address   No      Yes    Yes        No          Yes      No
                    Input     Search      search       search results.
                                          query string
                    Control   Feature     Data         Purpose           Sent    Sent   Sent to    User        Enabled  Enabled
                                                                         to      to     TomTom identifiers     in Full  in
                                                                         Azure   Bing              or          Support  Limited
                                                                         Maps    Maps              tracking             Support
                                                                                                   data sent
                    Address   Address     Current      To bias address   No      Yes    Yes        No          Yes      No
                    Input     Search      device       search results
                                          location     around the device
                                                       location.
              Next steps
              Add the controls to your apps:
                   Visualize and interpret location data with the Interactive map control.
                   See dynamic address suggestions as you type with the Address input control.
              See also
              Create an app that uses the address input and map controls
         Interactive map control
         Article • 03/15/2023
         Easily add an interactive map to your canvas apps. Plot markers from a data source containing
         addresses or latitude and longitude pairs. As you zoom out, the markers will optionally cluster
         to condense groups of data. On mobile devices and web experiences, a map can show the
         user's current position and calculate a route to the user's destination. Maps can be switched
         between road and satellite views.
         Interactive map features
              Use a data source to insert pins
              Display information about map pins
              Show routes between waypoints
              Draw and insert shapes
         Prerequisites
         You'll need to satisfy a few prerequisites before you can use maps in your canvas apps. Refer to
         the privacy and security table for more details on how different map features use data.
         Add a map to an app screen
         With your app open for editing in Power Apps Studio  :
            1. Select the Insert tab and expand Media.
            2. Select Map to place a map in the app screen, or drag the control to the screen to position
              it more precisely.
       Adding pins, routes, and shapes
       Pins, routes, and shapes are data set properties that need to both identify a data source, which
       is a table from a collection or connector, and the relevant columns. The data source is set in the
       Items property (Items for pins, RouteWaypoints_Items for routes, Shape_Items for shapes) and
       the relevant columns are set in the related properties (e.g. ItemLatitudes, ItemLongitudes, etc
       for pins). The Properties section contains additional information about these data sets and their
       related properties.
       For example, if you had a table collection named Locations with Name, Longitude, and
       Latitude columns:
                                                                  ﾉ
                                                                     Expand table
        Name                                  Longitude         Latitude
        Fourth Coffee (sample)                -98.29277         26.2774
        Litware, Inc. (sample)                -96.85572         32.55253
        Adventure Works (sample)              -96.99952         32.72058
       To display these as labeled pins on the map:
         1. Set the Items property to Locations
         2. Set the ItemLabels property to "Name"
         3. Set the ItemLongitude property to "Longitude"
         4. Set the ItemLatitude property to "Latitude"
             ） Important
             The relevant column names need to be in quotation marks in the related properties.
             The data source should not have quotation marks.
       You can see how to do display pins from an Excel sheet or build an app that uses the address
       input control to populate pins on the map control as additional examples.
         ７ Note
             Each map control can display up to 5000 pins from latitude or longitude and 50 pins
             from addresses. The pin limit is lower for addresses as the map needs to geocode
         these addresses into latitude or longitude to display them. We recommend not using
         addresses where possible. You can save geocoded addresses back to your data
         source.
         When both latitude or longitude and an address is given for a single pin, the map
         control will prioritize using the latitude or longitude to avoid geocoding the address.
         The maximum number of shapes that can be drawn in a map control is limited to
         500.
     Properties
     Change a map's behavior and appearance using properties. Some properties are only available
     on the Advanced tab.
      The map control has six different types of properties:
        1. Styling properties
        2. Behavioral properties
        3. Pin properties
        4. Route properties
        5. Shape properties
        6. Output properties
      Styling properties
                                                           ﾉ
                                                             Expand table
             Property         Description                                        Type            Tab
             Satellite view   Displays the map in satellite view. Leave this     Boolean         Properties; Advanced:
                              property off to display the map in road view.                      SatelliteView
             Map style        Sets the map style. Options: Road, Night,          Enum            Properties
                              Road shaded relief, Satellite, Satellite road
                              labels, High contrast light, High contrast
                              dark, Grayscale light, Grayscale dark.
             Transparency     Determines the map's transparency, from 0          Integer         Properties; Advanced:
                              (opaque) to 100 (transparent).                                     Transparency
             Visible          Shows or hides the map.                            Boolean         Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                                 Visible
             Position         Places the upper-left corner of the map at         Floating        Properties; Advanced: X, Y
                              the screen coordinates specified in x and y.       point
                                                                                 number
             Size             Determines the size of the map using the           Integer         Properties; Advanced:
                              pixel values provided in Width and Height.                         Width, Height
             Border           Determines the corner radius of the map            Floating        Properties; Advanced:
             radius           border.                                            point           BorderRadius
                                                                                 number
             Border           Determines the style, width, and color of the      Not             Properties; Advanced:
                              map border.                                        applicable      BorderStyle,
                                                                                                 BorderThickness,
                                                                                                 BorderColor
             DisplayMode      Determines whether the control allows user         Enum            Advanced
                              input (Edit), only displays data (View), or is
                              disabled (Disabled).
           Behavioral properties
                                                                                                            ﾉ Expand table
             Property               Description                                   Type         Tab
             Show info cards        Shows information about a mapped              Enum         Properties; Advanced:
                                    location when the user selects it (On                      InfoCards
                                    click) or points to it (On hover). If None,
                                    no information is shown.
             Use default            Initializes the map at a default location.    Boolean      Properties; Advanced:
             location                                                                          DefaultLocation
            Property               Description                                 Type         Tab
            Default latitude       Sets the latitude coordinate the map        Floating     Properties; Advanced:
                                   shows if Use default location is            point        DefaultLatitude
                                   enabled.                                    number
            Default longitude      Sets the longitude coordinate the map       Floating     Properties; Advanced:
                                   shows if Use default location is            point        DefaultLongitude
                                   enabled.                                    number
            Default zoom level     Sets the zoom level if Use default          Integer      Properties; Advanced:
                                   location is enabled, from 0 to 22.                       DefaultZoomLevel
            Show current           Displays the user's current location.       Boolean      Properties; Advanced:
            location                                                                        CurrentLocation
            Current location       Sets the latitude coordinate of the         Floating     Properties; Advanced:
            latitude               current location pin that the map shows     point        CurrentLocationLatitude
                                   if Show current location is enabled. To     number
                                   place the pin at the user's current
                                   location, set this property to
                                   Location.Latitude.
            Current location       Sets the longitude coordinate of the        Floating     Properties; Advanced:
            longitude              current location pin that the map shows     point        CurrentLocationLongitude
                                   if Show current location is enabled. To     number
                                   place the pin at the user's current
                                   location, set this property to
                                   Location.Longitude.
            Zoom control           Shows the zoom control.                     Boolean      Properties; Advanced: Zoom
            Compass control        Shows the compass control.                  Boolean      Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                            Compass
            Pitch control          Shows the pitch (tilt) control.             Boolean      Properties; Advanced: Pitch
            TabIndex               Specifies the order the map is selected     Integer      Properties; Advanced: Tab
                                   if the user navigates the app using the                  index
                                   Tab key.
            Tooltip                Determines the text to display when the     String       Advanced
                                   user hovers over a visual.
            ContentLanguage        Determines the display language of the      String       Advanced
                                   map, if it's different from the language
                                   used in the app.
            OnLoad                 Contains code that runs when the map        Event        Advanced
                                   is loaded.
            Property               Description                                  Type         Tab
            OnMapClick             Contains code that runs when the user        Event        Advanced
                                   selects the map. The latitude and
                                   longitude of the clicked point is in the
                                   ClickedLocation output property.
            OnChange               Contains code that runs when any             Event        Advanced
                                   aspect of the map is changed.
            OnSelect               Contains code that runs when the user        Event        Advanced
                                   selects something on the map.
           Pin properties
                                                                                                         ﾉ Expand table
            Property             Description                                                 Type             Tab
            Locations(Items)     Identifies a data source (Items) in the form of a table     Not              Properties;
                                 from which to get locations to show on the map. The         applicable       Advanced:
                                 table lists sets of longitudes and latitudes, or physical                    Items
                                 addresses, to display as pins. Using latitude or
                                 longitude is recommended as addresses need to be
                                 geocoded and so have a more restrictive pin limit. The
                                 table can be a collection or from a data source like
                                 Excel Online. Each row must have an entry for label,
                                 longitude, and latitude, or a physical address, and
                                 optionally the pin color and icon.
            ItemsLabels          Identifies the column in Items that contains the labels     ColumnName Advanced
                                 for the pins.
            ItemsLatitudes       Identifies the column in Items that contains the            ColumnName Advanced
                                 latitude position of the pins.
            ItemsLongitudes      Identifies the column in Items that contains the            ColumnName Advanced
                                 longitude position of the pins.
            ItemsAddresses       Identifies the column in Items that contains addresses      ColumnName Advanced
                                 that represent the location of the pins. There is a limit
                                 to how many pins can be displayed from addresses.
                                 We recommend geocoding your addresses to latitude,
                                 longitude pairs and using those to display pins when
                                 possible.
            ItemsColors          Identifies the column in Items that contains the colors     ColumnName Advanced
                                 of the pins.
            Property            Description                                                Type             Tab
            ItemsIcons          Identifies the column in Items that contains the icons     ColumnName Advanced
                                of the pins.
            Cluster pins        Groups nearby map pins instead of displaying them          Boolean          Properties;
                                individually.                                                               Advanced:
                                                                                                            Clustering
            Pin color           Determines the default color of pins shown on the          Color picker     Properties;
                                map. This color is overridden by the ItemsColors                            Advanced:
                                property if set                                                             PinColor
            OnItemsChange       Contains code that runs when pins on the map are           Event            Advanced
                                changed.
           Route properties
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
            Property                       Description                         Type             Tab
            Enable routing                 Determines whether the user         Boolean          Properties; Advanced:
                                           can request directions to a                          UseRouting
                                           specified location.
            Route waypoints(Items)         Shows route waypoints, as           Enum             Properties; Advanced:
                                           provided in a data source                            RouteWaypoints_Items
                                           (RouteWaypoints_Items) in the
                                           form of a table. The table can
                                           be a collection or from a data
                                           source like Excel Online. If None,
                                           no waypoints are shown.
            RouteWaypointsLabels           Identifies the column in            ColumnName Advanced
                                           RouteWaypoints_Items that
                                           contains the labels for the
                                           waypoints.
            RouteWaypointsLatitudes        Identifies the column in            ColumnName Advanced
                                           RouteWaypoints_Items that
                                           contains the latitude position of
                                           the waypoints.
            RouteWaypointsLongitudes       Identifies the column in            ColumnName Advanced
                                           RouteWaypoints_Items that
                                           contains the longitude position
                                           of the waypoints.
           Property                    Description                      Type            Tab
           RouteWaypointsAddresses     Identifies the column in         ColumnName Advanced
                                       RouteWaypoints_Items that
                                       contains addresses that
                                       represent the location of
                                       waypoints.
           Maintain waypoint order     Determines whether a             Boolean         Properties; Advanced:
                                       calculated route maintains                       RouteMaintainOrder
                                       waypoints in the order
                                       provided.
           Optimize route              Determines whether a             Enum            Properties; Advanced:
                                       calculated route is optimized for                RouteOptimization
                                       distance, time, or isn't
                                       optimized.
           Route travel mode           Determines whether a route is    Enum            Properties; Advanced:
                                       calculated for a car or a truck,                 RouteTravelMode
                                       which may require avoiding
                                       bridges with certain height or
                                       weight restrictions.
           OnRouteDirectionChange      Contains code that runs when     Event           Advanced
                                       the app detects the user has
                                       changed direction while on a
                                       computed route.
          Shape properties
                                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
           Property                  Description                         Type           Tab
           Show shapes               Shows the shapes in Shapes_Items.   Boolean        Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                        ShowShapes
           Shapes_Items              Identifies a data source            TableName      Advanced
                                     (Shapes_Items) in the form of a
                                     table from which to get shapes to
                                     show on the map. The table can be
                                     a collection or from a data source
                                     like Excel Online. Each row must
                                     have an entry for the shape
                                     (GeoJSON object) and (optionally) a
                                     label and color.
            Property                    Description                            Type            Tab
            ShapeGeoJSONObjects         Identifies the column in               ColumnName Advanced
                                        Shapes_Items with strings that
                                        represent the GeoJSON objects of
                                        the shapes, in shape collection or
                                        single shape GeoJSON format.
            ShapeLabels                 Identifies the column in               ColumnName Advanced
                                        Shapes_Items that contains the
                                        labels for the shapes.
            ShapeColors                 Identifies the column in               ColumnName Advanced
                                        Shapes_Items that contains the
                                        colors of the shapes.
            Show shape labels           Shows the shape labels, if provided.   Boolean         Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                               ShowShapeLabels
            Enable shape drawing        Shows drawing tools on the map.        Boolean         Properties; Advanced:
                                                                                               ShapeDrawing
            Enable shape deleting       Determines whether the user can        Boolean         Properties; Advanced:
            and label editing           delete shapes and edit their labels.                   ShapeEditingDeleting
            OnShapeCreated              Contains code that runs when the       Event           Advanced
                                        user adds a shape to the map.
            OnShapeSelected             Contains code that runs when the       Event           Advanced
                                        user selects a shape on the map.
            OnShapeEdited               Contains code that runs when the       Event           Advanced
                                        user modifies a shape on the map.
            OnShapeDeleted              Contains code that runs when the       Event           Advanced
                                        user deletes a shape on the map.
           Output properties
           Other properties become available when a user interacts with a map. You can use these output
           properties in other controls or to customize the app experience.
                                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
            Property                           Description                                                 Type
            CenterLocation                     Captures the map's center point.                            Not
                                                                                                           Applicable
            Property                            Description                                                   Type
            ClickedLocation                     Captures the last location the user selected, either          Record
                                                .Latitude or .Longitude.
            Selected                            Captures the selected pin.                                    Record
            SelectedItems                       Captures the selected pin or pins in the selected cluster.    Table
            GeocodedItems                       Captures the geocoded locations of the pins.                  Table
            RouteWaypoints_Selected             Corresponds to the record of the selected shape in            Record
                                                RouteWaypoints_Items.
            RouteWaypoints_SelectedItems        Corresponds to the records of the selected overlapping        Table
                                                shapes in RouteWaypoints_Items.
            Shapes_Selected                     Corresponds to the record of the selected shape in            Record
                                                Shapes_Items.
            Shapes_SelectedItems                Corresponds to the records of the selected overlapping        Table
                                                shapes in Shapes_Items.
            SelectedShape                       Captures the .Perimeter and .Area of the selected shape.      Record
            DeletedShape                        Captures the .Perimeter and .Area of the last deleted         Record
                                                shape.
            GeoJSON                             Captures the list of shapes in Feature Collection             String
                                                GeoJSON format.
           Other geospatial controls
           To see dynamic address suggestions as you type, use the Address input control.
           Known limitations
                 Requires internet connection
           See also
           Create an app with address input and map controls
              Use a data source to insert pins
              Article • 03/15/2023
              You can load a table that contains existing data into the map control. The control will
              then plot each row in your table as a map pin.
              Prerequisites
                 1. Create a Canvas app and make sure it meets the Geospatial prerequisites.
                 2. In your app, insert a map.
              Add pin data from an Excel workbook
              Your data source needs to contain a named table with the following columns that
              should then be mapped to the associated property in the control's Advanced pane.
                                                                                              ﾉ
                                                                                                  Expand table
               Column description                       Maps to property                     Required
               Label for the pin                        ItemsLabels                          Required
               Longitude of the pin                     ItemsLongitudes                      Required
               Latitude of the pin                      ItemsLatitudes                       Required
               Color of the pin                         ItemsColors                          Optional
               Icon for the pin                         ItemsIcons                           Optional
              The color field accepts any CSS string, as defined in Color enumeration and ColorFade,
              ColorValue, and RGBA functions in Power Apps.
              You can use the icons described in the List of image templates topic as your icon.
              The following Excel table shows the required columns:
            You can copy the following sample data to test this functionality:
                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
             Name                               Longitude    Latitude   Color    Icon
             Fourth Coffee (sample)             -98.29277    26.2774    Blue     marker-flat
             Litware, Inc. (sample)             -96.85572    32.55253   #ffefcd  hexagon-thick
             Adventure Works (sample)           -96.99952    32.72058            car
             Fabrikam, Inc. (sample)            -118.30746   34.86543
             Blue Yonder Airlines (sample)      -118.66184   34.17553
             City Power & Light (sample)        -113.46184   37.15363
             Contoso Pharmaceuticals (sample)   -80.26711    40.19918
             Alpine Ski House (sample)          -102.63908   35.20919
             A Datum Corporation (sample)       -89.39433    40.71025
             Coho Winery (sample)               -116.97751   32.87466
               1. Copy and paste the table into a new data source. In this example, we are using an
                 Excel workbook.
               2. Select one of the cells, and then on the Home tab in the ribbon, select Format as
                 Table and choose any style, and then OK.
       3. Select the table, and then go to the Table Design tab on the ribbon. Enter a name
        for the table under Table Name:, for example TestData.
       4. Save the workbook.
       5. Open or create a new app in Power Apps, and insert the map control.
       6. On the Properties pane, select the Locations(Items) field and then search for excel
        and select Import from Excel.
       7. Locate the Excel workbook and then select Open. Select the table that contains the
        information, TestData, and then Connect.
       8. On the Properties pane, go to the Advanced tab, and select More options.
       9. Set the following properties:
           ItemsLabels as "Name"
           ItemsLatitudes as "Latitude"
           ItemsLongitudes as "Longitude"
           (Optional) ItemsColors as "Colors"
           (Optional) ItemsIcons as "Icons"
       10. The map control will now show each row in the table as a pin, labeled with its
        Name as defined in the Excel table, and using the provided icons and colors. If an
        icon or color isn't provided, then the control will use the default icon and color.
       ７ Note
         Each map control can display up to 5000 pins from latitude or longitude and 50
         pins from addresses. The pin limit is lower for addresses as the map needs to
         geocode these addresses into latitude or longitude to display them. We
         recommend not using addresses where possible. You can save geocoded
         addresses back to your data source.
         When both latitude or longitude and an address is given for a single pin, the map
         control will prioritize using the latitude or longitude to avoid geocoding the
         address.
       Save geocoded addresses from map control to
       data source
       To avoid geocoding the same set of addresses every time the map control is launched,
       you can save the geocoded addresses back to the original data source, such that when
       the map relaunches, it will use the latitude and longitude instead of geocoding the
       addresses again.
       To do so, add a button to save the geocoded address back to the original data source
       with the following formula:
         Power Fx
          ForAll(Map1.GeocodedItems, Patch(Accounts1, LookUp(Accounts1, 
         ThisRecord.Address = Address && ThisRecord.Name = Label), {Latitude: 
         Latitude, Longitude: Longitude }))
              Other interactive map features
                    Add info cards to pins
                    Show routes between waypoints
                    Draw and insert shapes onto maps
              Other geospatial controls
              To see dynamic address suggestions as you type, use the Address input control.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Add informational cards to pins on a
       map
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Easily add cards to maps in your canvas apps to show details about pinned locations.
       When a user selects a pin, a card pops up with information from the data source you
       bound to the map control. Any column in the data source (for example, an Excel table)
       can be shown as a field on the card.
       Prerequisites
         1. Create a canvas app and make sure it meets the geospatial prerequisites.
         2. Insert a map.
       Add info cards to pins
         1. Bind the map to a data source.
         2. In the map control's Properties pane, select Show info cards. Select On click to
          show the info card when the user selects a pin, or On hover if it should appear
          when the user hovers over the pin.
         3. In the Properties pane, next to Fields, select Edit.
         4. Select Add field, and then select the fields from the data source that you want to
          show in the card. Select Add.
       When the user selects a pin, an info card shows the fields you selected.
       Other interactive map features
          Use data from Excel to insert pins
          Show routes between waypoints
          Draw and insert shapes onto maps
       Other geospatial controls
       To see dynamic address suggestions as you type, use the Address input control.
       Draw and insert shapes on a map
       (preview)
       Article • 12/16/2022
       [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
       Add a drawing panel to your maps to let users draw and label shapes on them. You can also
       insert and label predefined shapes to highlight specific regions or areas of interest.
         ） Important
            This is a preview feature.
            Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
            functionality. These features are available before an official release so that
            customers can get early access and provide feedback.
       Prerequisites
         1. Create a canvas app and make sure it meets the geospatial prerequisites.
         2. Insert a map.
       Draw and label shapes on an interactive map
         1. In the map control's Properties pane, turn on the following properties:
             (Preview) Enable Shape Drawing
             (Preview) Enable Shape Deleting and Label Editing
        A drawing panel appears in the upper-left corner of the map control.
        The panel features three tools:
           A polygon drawing tool for drawing freeform shapes
           A square drawing tool for drawing squares and rectangles
           A circle drawing tool for drawing circles and ovals
       2. Select a tool and draw a shape on the map. To finish and close a freeform shape,
        double-click the final point.
      Drawn shapes are automatically labeled. To change a label, select the shape, and then enter
      a new name in the box in the upper-right corner of the map.
      To delete a shape, select it, and then select the trashcan.
             Import GeoJSON shapes into a map
             If you already have shapes defined in GeoJSON format, you can import them into your
             map. For example, you might have a shape that defines a specific area that you want to
             highlight.
             The GeoJSON string for each shape in your data source needs to be in the correct format  ,
             in a single cell.
             To import shapes, first connect your data source to the map control. Then, assign the
             control's properties to the appropriate columns in the data source, as in the following
             example:
             Your data source must be a named table with at least three columns. Each column
             corresponds to an advanced property of the map control.
              Column description                                     Corresponds to          Required
              The shape's GeoJSON coordinates in the correct format  ShapeGeoJSONObjects     Required
              Shape label                                            ShapeLabels             Optional
              Shape color                                            ShapeColors             Optional
                Tip
               Specify the color using a name, CSS color definition, or RGBA value. If the color isn't
               provided, then the shape will use the app's defaults.
             The data source must be named. If you're using an Excel workbook as the data source, use
             the name of the table that contains the data. In this example, we'll import shapes from an
             Excel table named Seattle1.
                1. Copy the following sample data into a blank workbook, format it as a table, and name
                  the table Seattle1. Then, connect the workbook to your map as a data source. For
                  detailed instructions using a similar example, see Use a data source to place pins on a
                  map.
                   County   GeoJSON                                               TotalCases  Color
                   Adams    {"type":"FeatureCollection","properties":             1689        RGB(184,210,232)
                            {"kind":"state","state":"WA"},"features":
                            [{"type":"Feature","properties":
                            {"kind":"county","name":"Adams","state":"WA"},"geometry":
                            {"type":"MultiPolygon","coordinates":[[[[-118.9503,47.2640],
                            [-117.9590,47.2586],[-117.9699,46.8697],
                            [-118.0466,46.7711],[-118.2109,46.7383],
                            [-119.2132,46.7383],[-119.3720,46.7383],
                            [-119.3665,46.9135],[-118.9832,46.9135],
                            [-118.9777,47.2640]]]]}}]}
                    County   GeoJSON                                                 TotalCases   Color
                    Asotin   {"type":"FeatureCollection","properties":               1096         RGB(184,210,232)
                             {"kind":"state","state":"WA"},"features":
                             [{"type":"Feature","properties":
                             {"kind":"county","name":"Asotin","state":"WA"},"geometry":
                             {"type":"MultiPolygon","coordinates":[[[[-117.0388,46.4261],
                             [-117.0607,46.3549],[-116.9841,46.2946],
                             [-116.9676,46.2015],[-116.9238,46.1687],
                             [-116.9841,46.0920],[-116.9183,45.9934],
                             [-117.4825,45.9989],[-117.4825,46.1194],
                             [-117.4222,46.1194],[-117.4222,46.3823],
                             [-117.2305,46.4096],[-117.2305,46.4644],
                             [-117.1977,46.4206]]]]}}]}
                    Benton   {"type":"FeatureCollection","properties":               13111        RGB(13,106,191)
                             {"kind":"state","state":"WA"},"features":
                             [{"type":"Feature","properties":
                             {"kind":"county","name":"Benton","state":"WA"},"geometry":
                             {"type":"MultiPolygon","coordinates":[[[[-119.8759,46.6287],
                             [-119.6240,46.6452],[-119.5144,46.7273],
                             [-119.4542,46.6780],[-119.2680,46.5192],
                             [-119.2680,46.2727],[-119.0434,46.1906],
                             [-118.9448,46.0756],[-118.9393,46.0263],
                             [-118.9886,45.9989],[-119.1256,45.9332],
                             [-119.4323,45.9167],[-119.5692,45.9277],
                             [-119.6678,45.8565],[-119.8704,45.8346],
                             [-119.8649,46.0427],[-119.8759,46.6287]]]]}}]}
                    County   GeoJSON                                                 TotalCases   Color
                    Chelan   {"type":"FeatureCollection","properties":               5324         RGB(112,187,255)
                             {"kind":"state","state":"WA"},"features":
                             [{"type":"Feature","properties":
                             {"kind":"county","name":"Chelan","state":"WA"},"geometry":
                             {"type":"MultiPolygon","coordinates":[[[[-120.7029,48.5292],
                             [-120.6536,48.5347],[-120.6262,48.4964],
                             [-120.6646,48.4471],[-120.6481,48.3978],
                             [-120.5605,48.3704],[-120.5879,48.3211],
                             [-120.5112,48.3101],[-120.3524,48.2170],
                             [-120.3633,48.1568],[-120.3250,48.1294],
                             [-120.1443,48.0637],[-120.1443,48.0363],
                             [-120.0895,48.0199],[-120.0512,47.9596],
                             [-119.8704,47.9596],[-119.9964,47.7789],
                             [-120.2100,47.7515],[-120.1990,47.6803],
                             [-120.2374,47.5872],[-120.3031,47.5215],
                             [-120.3195,47.4557],[-120.2921,47.4010],
                             [-120.0895,47.3407],[-120.0950,47.2640],
                             [-120.3907,47.2586],[-120.5276,47.3352],
                             [-120.5605,47.3079],[-120.8015,47.4229],
                             [-120.9165,47.4284],[-121.1137,47.5981],
                             [-121.1301,47.6748],[-121.0644,47.7132],
                             [-121.1192,47.7789],[-121.0699,47.8282],
                             [-121.1520,47.8446],[-121.1739,47.8884],
                             [-121.1630,47.9541],[-121.1192,47.9980],
                             [-121.1520,48.0418],[-121.0151,48.0746],
                             [-120.9439,48.1130],[-120.9548,48.1513],
                             [-120.9056,48.1623],[-121.0041,48.2937],
                             [-121.0699,48.3156],[-121.0425,48.3485],
                             [-121.0644,48.3923],[-121.0370,48.4306],
                             [-121.0480,48.4854],[-120.8563,48.5511],
                             [-120.7851,48.5073]]]]}}]}
                2. Bind the following advanced properties of the map control to the appropriate
                   columns in the data source:
                    Property                                                     Column
                    ShapeGeoJSONObjects                                          GeoJSON
                    ShapeLabels                                                  County
                    ShapeColors                                                  Color
                   Your map should look something like this:
       Display the perimeter and area of drawn or
       inserted shapes (preview)
       Your apps can show the perimeter (in feet) and area (in square feet) of a selected shape on
       a map.
         1. In your app, open the Insert tab and expand Display.
         2. Select Text label to insert a label on the app screen. Move and resize it as you like.
         3. Change the Text property of the label control to [Map].SelectedShape.Area or
          [Map].SelectedShape.Perimeter to display the selected shape's area or perimeter. (Hint:
          Enter the given value in the formula bar or on the Properties tab, whichever you
          prefer.)
       In the following example, we used four text labels to display both the area and perimeter of
       the selected shape:
       Other interactive map features
          Use data from Excel to insert pins
          Add info cards to pins
          Show routes between waypoints
       Other geospatial controls
       To see dynamic address suggestions as you type, use the Address input control.
            Calculate routes between waypoint pins
            on a map (preview)
            Article • 07/15/2022
            [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
            The map control in a canvas app can add waypoint pins using data imported from a
            table in an Excel workbook. The control can calculate routes between waypoints, reorder
            waypoints, and recalculate a route to improve travel time or distance.
               ） Important
                    This is a preview feature.
                    Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
                    functionality. These features are available before an official release so that
                    customers can get early access and provide feedback.
            You'll need a data source that contains a named table with the following columns. Each
            column corresponds to an advanced property of the map control. Each row is pinned as
            a waypoint on the map.
              Column         Corresponds to            Required
              name
              Name (or       RouteWaypointsLabels      Optional
              Label)
              Longitude      RouteWaypointsLongitudes  Optional (required if Address isn't given)
              Latitude       RouteWaypointsLatitudes   Optional (required if Address isn't given)
              Address        RouteWaypointsAddresses   Optional (required if Longitude and Latitude aren't
                                                       given)
               ７ Note
               All properties are technically optional. However, at least one of an address or a
               latitude/longitude pair must be provided for the waypoint location to be plotted.
            Import waypoint pins from an Excel table
             In this example, we'll import waypoint data from an Excel table named TestData.
             Create a data source
                 1. Create a table   in Excel with the following data. Name the table TestData.
                    Name          Longitude       Latitude      Address
                    Work          -122.156481     47.663448     1 Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052
                    Meet up       -122.221037     47.57137
                    Swimming      -122.144133     47.600373
                    Tennis        -122.137265     47.616115
                   Your table should look something like this:
                 2. Save the workbook to your OneDrive for Business and close the file.
             Bind the data source to a map control
                 1. Create a canvas app. Make sure it meets the geospatial prerequisites.
                 2. Insert a map control.
                 3. On the control's Properties tab, select the Route waypoints(Items) box and type
                   excel.
       4. Select Import from Excel.
       5. Navigate to your OneDrive for Business and select the Excel workbook you saved
        earlier.
       6. Select the table TestData, and then select Connect.
       7. On the Advanced tab, find RouteWaypointsLabels, RouteWaypointsLatitudes,
        RouteWaypointsLongitudes, and RouteWaypointsAddresses and enter the name
        of the corresponding column in the table. (In this example, enter Name in
          RouteWaypointsLabels, Latitude in RouteWaypointsLatitudes, and so on.) Enclose
          the column name in quotation marks.
           ７ Note
           Address is interchangeable with Latitude and Longitude. If Latitude and
           Longitude are provided, then Address isn't used. If Address is provided, then
           Latitude and Longitude aren't needed. There is a limit to the number of
           waypoints that can be displayed when using address, so use Latitude and
           Longitude when possible.
       Pins appear on the map at the locations described by the coordinates or addresses in
       the table. If the table included labels, the pins are labeled. The pins are numbered in the
       order the waypoint locations appear in the table.
       Calculate routes between the waypoints
       With the map control selected, open the Properties tab and turn on Enable routing.
       The control calculates routes between the pinned waypoints.
               ７ Note
               By default, the map control reorders the middle waypoints to decrease travel time
               or travel distance. The first and last waypoints are considered the origin and
               destination and can't be reordered. To keep the waypoints in the order given in the
               data source, turn on the control's Maintain waypoint order property.
            Properties
            Change how a route is calculated using properties.
              Property  Description                                 Type       Tab
