         Create and update a collection in a canvas
         app
         Use a collection to store data that users can manage in your app. A collection is a group of
         items that are similar, such as products in a product list. For more information about different
         types of variables, including collections, see Understand canvas-app variables.
         Prerequisites
              Sign up for Power Apps, and then sign in    by providing the same credentials that you
              used to sign up.
              Create an app or open an existing app in Power Apps.
              Learn how to configure a control in Power Apps.
         Watch this video to learn how to create and update a collection:
         https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=b709db8a-7d9c-4869-b2f7-
         76027df3bee0&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
         apps%2Fcreate-update-collection
         Create a multicolumn collection
            1. In Power Apps Studio, add a Text input control.
            2. Rename the control by selecting its ellipsis in the left navigation pane, selecting Rename,
              and then typing ProductName.
            3. Add a Drop down control.
       4. Rename the Drop down control Colors, and make sure that the Items property is selected
        in the property list.
       5. In the formula bar, replace DropDownSample with this expression:
        ["Red","Green","Blue"]
       6. Add a Button control, set its Text property to "Add", and set its OnSelect property to this
        formula:
         Power Fx
         Collect(
             ProductList,
             {
                 Product: "ProductName.Text",
                 Color: "Colors.Selected.Value"
             }
         )
       7. To preview the app, press F5 or select the play button. Type some text into
        ProductName, select an option in Colors, and then select Add.
       8. Repeat the previous step at least two more times, and then press Esc.
       9. Select the Variables pane and then select Collections to see the collections that you
        created.
     Show a collection
       1. Select Insert > Vertical gallery control.
       2. Set the gallery's Items property to ProductList.
       3. Select the gallery in the tree view and then select Fields.
       4. Set the subtitle field to Color, and set the title field to Product.
       5. Select Layout > Title and subtitle.
     Remove one or all items
       1. Select the gallery and add a Trash icon to the gallery template.
        2. Set the icon's OnSelect property to this formula:
         Remove(ProductList, ThisItem)
        3. Outside the gallery, add a button, set its Text property to "Clear", and set its OnSelect
         property to this formula:
         Clear(ProductList)
        4. While holding down the Alt key, select the Trash icon for an item to remove that item
         from the collection, or select the Clear button to remove all items from the collection.
      Put a list into a collection
        1. Create a connection to a list created using Microsoft Lists.
        2. Add a button, and set its OnSelect property to this function, replacing ListName with the
         name of your list:
         Collect(MySPCollection, ListName)
         This function creates a collection named MySPCollection that contains the same data as
         your list.
        3. Select the button while holding down the Alt key.
      For information about how to show data in a form (with drop-down lists, date pickers, and
      people pickers), see Edit form and Display form controls.
      Next steps
         Review the reference article for the Collect function.
         Learn how to shape data in a collection by using the AddColumns, DropColumns,
         RenameColumns, and ShowColumns functions.
      Last updated on 01/13/2026
       Show information about a user in a
       canvas app
       Article • 12/16/2022
       In Power Apps, show the full name, the email address, and the picture that's associated
       with the user who's signed in to a canvas app. You can use this information, for example,
       to automatically fill in a form.
       For example, you can use this feature to:
          Create a sign-up "sheet" for users to attend training, volunteer for events, check in
          at a kiosk, and more.
          Display the full name on a Human Resources app.
          Automatically enter an email address when contacting your helpdesk.
       Basically, you can use this anywhere users would benefit from a form or labels that are
       populated automatically
       Prerequisites
         1. Create a blank canvas app.
         2. Learn how to add and configure controls.
       Show user details
         1. On the Insert tab, click or tap Media, and then click or tap Image.
         2. Set the Image property to this formula:  
          User().Image
       3. On the Insert tab, click or tap Text, and then click or tap Label:
       4. Set the Text property to this formula:  
        User().FullName
        When you do this, the label is automatically populated with your full name. Move
        the label so it's below the image control, similar to the following:
       5. Add another label, and set its Text property to this formula:  
        User().Email
        When you do this, the label is automatically populated with your email address.
        Move the label so it's below the first label, similar to the following:
     Use Power Automate pane
     Create new flows or add and edit existing flows using the Power Automate pane within Power
     Apps Studio. The Power Automate pane is enabled by default.
      ） Important
      Arguments that pass from Power Apps to Power Automate are visible as network traffic
      and can be intercepted. Most traffic is likely harmless data that are irrelevant outside the
      application, for example arguments like "yes" or "Redmond".
      Evaluate the parameters passed to Power Automate and consider the consequences (if
      any) if they're changed by an exernal actor. To mitigate risks, validate the parameter values
      passed.
      For example, if you send sensitive data to a person in your organization through email, for
      example someuser@contoso.com, validate the address in Power Automate. You can check
      the incoming arguments to confirm the organization, @contoso.com, and only allow the
      flow to proceed if the right organization is present.
     Create a new flow
       1. Open a new or an existing app in Power Apps Studio.
       2. On the app authoring menu, select Power Automate.
      3. In the Power Automate pane, select Create new flow.
    This action opens the Create your flow modal dialog within Power Apps Studio. You can
    choose to create the flow from the available templates, or create a flow from scratch.
    Start with a template
    Power Automate provides several flow templates that you can choose from by default. This
    section explains how to create a flow using such available templates from within Power Apps
    Studio.
      1. From the list of available templates, select a template of your choice. For this example, we
       use Click a button in Power Apps to send an email.
      2. The next step shows the connections required to create a flow based on the selected
       template. More information: Connectors overview
      3. (Optional) You can use Edit in advanced mode to update the connection, and customize
       the flow template. When done, select Save to save the flow. Skip the next step since your
       flow creation process is now complete.
      4. Select Next > Create to create the flow.
       The flow now appears in the list of flows inside the Power Automate pane, under the In
       your app section.
         Tip
         For more information about creating cloud flows from templates, see Create a cloud
         flow from a template.
     Create from blank
     Instead of using the available templates, you can create a flow from scratch, and customize the
     steps as per your requirement.
       1. Select Create from blank.
       2. Add and customize the flow with steps and actions, as shown in the following example.
       3. When done, select Save from upper right corner of the screen.
          Tip
         For more information about customizing and configuring cloud flows, see the How
         to articles starting from Add multiple actions and advanced options to a cloud
         flow.
     Add an existing flow
     You might have access to the existing flows in the environment where you're creating your app.
     To add and use these flows in your app, select Add a flow, and then choose the flow from the
     Add a flow from this environment section.
       Tip
      You can hover over the flow to see more details before adding to your app.
     You must meet the following requirements to be able to add an existing flow to a canvas app:
        Have access to the flow
        Have access to see the flows that are part of the same solution
        Have a Power Apps trigger for your flows.
     After being added, the flow will appear under the In your app section inside the Power
     Automate pane.
     Reference a flow
     To reference the added flow, update the formula bar for the control or component within
     Power Apps Studio with the flow details. For example, to reference a flow named
     "PowerAppsbutton" that triggers an email without accepting any input parameters, use the
     following formula on the button's OnSelect property:
      Power Fx
      PowerAppsbutton.Run()
     This behavior is different from how the reference to a flow works within Power Apps Studio if
     the Power Automate pane is disabled.
     When you add a flow with the Power Automate pane disabled, you must choose a behavior
     property of the control or the component that you want to associate with the flow. Adding a
     flow, in this case, clears any formula already associated with the chosen property (when the
     flow reference is added). Any existing formula gets removed, and you must carefully make a
     copy of the existing formula before adding the flow in order to preserve it. You can then paste
     your copied formula back after the flow reference is added.
     For example, on a button's OnSelect property, adding the flow removes your existing formula,
     and you have to carefully make a copy of the existing formula before adding the flow. The
     following example shows the process with the Power Automate pane disabled. In this case, the
     formula added for the button property is removed to reference the added flow.
     Whereas with the Power Automate pane enabled, any existing formula is preserved
     automatically (isn't removed). You can add the flow reference in the formula for a behavior
     property as per your requirement.
     The following example shows the process with the Power Automate pane enabled. When the
     flow is added, the existing formula for the button's OnSelect property is preserved, and the
     flow reference isn't added automatically.
     Now you can reference the flow through the regular process of updating the formula for the
     control or component—as explained earlier.
     Edit an existing flow
     You can now edit flows added to your app without leaving Power Apps Studio.
       1. Under the In your app section of the Power Automate pane, select ... (ellipsis) to the right
        of a flow.
       2. Select Edit.
        The flow opens inside the editor.
            3. Make your changes, and then select Save.
                ） Important
                To avoid losing unsaved changes, ensure you select Save before closing the editor.
         Refresh a flow
         If any changes are made to the flow in Power Automate   (instead of using Power Apps
         Studio), refresh your flow to get the latest changes.
         To refresh the flow and pull the latest changes, select ... (ellipsis) to the right of your flow, and
         then select Refresh.
     A loading spinner appears, and the flow is refreshed.
      ） Important
      After making changes to a flow outside of Power Apps Studio, you must perform this step;
      otherwise, the flow may fail to run—even in previously published apps. Skipping this step
      can also lead to performance issues in the Power Platform admin center, as each time the
      canvas app runs, it will try to validate the flow's connections using outdated information,
      which may not succeed.
     Remove a flow
     To remove a flow from your app, select ... (ellipsis) to the right of your flow, and then select
     Remove from app.
      This action only removes the flow from the app, while the flow remains intact in the
      environment. You can add the flow again to the same app, or use it in other apps.
      Classic Power Automate experience
      The Power Automate pane is now enabled by default. To use the classic Power Automate
      experience to create a flow, switch back to the old experience manually.
        ） Important
        It’s recommended that you use the Power Automate pane to create a flow. The classic
        Power Automate experience should only be used for troubleshooting. The classic
        experience will be retired soon and won't be available.
        1. Open a new or an existing app in Power Apps Studio.
        2. Select Settings at the top.
        3. Select Upcoming features.
        4. Under the Retired tab, select Enable Classic Power Automate pane to set the toggle to
          On.
      See also
          Add and configure controls
       Last updated on 11/10/2025
       Start a flow in a canvas app (retired)
       Article • 12/18/2024
       You can use Power Automate to create logic that performs one or more tasks when an
       event occurs in a canvas app. For example, you can configure a button that performs a
       single task or multiple tasks. When the button is pressed, an item is created in a list
       (Microsoft Lists), an email or meeting request is sent, and a file is added to the cloud.
       You can configure any control in the app to start the flow, which continues to run even if
       you close Power Apps.
        ７ Note
        When a user runs a flow from within an app, that user must have permission to
        perform the tasks that are specified in the flow. Otherwise, the flow will fail.
       Enable classic Power Automate experience
       By default, the new Power Automate pane is enabled by default. To use the classic Power
       Automate experience to create a flow, switch back to the old experience manually.
        ） Important
        It’s recommended that you use the Power Automate pane to create a flow. The
        classic Power Automate experience should only be used for troubleshooting. The
        classic experience will be retired soon and won't be available.
         1. Open a new or an existing app in Power Apps Studio.
         2. Select Settings at the top.
         3. Select Upcoming features.
         4. Under the Retired tab, select Enable Classic Power Automate pane to set the
          toggle to On.
       Prerequisites
          Sign up for Power Apps.
          Learn how to configure a control.
                  A SharePoint site with two lists.
                     List RepairShop contains Title, and ContactEmail columns.
                     List Assets contains Title, AssetType, and RepairShop columns. The AssetType
                     column is a choice column with choices such as "Desktop" or "Laptop".
                     The RepairShop column in Assets list is a lookup column that gets values from
                     the ContactEmail column in RepairShop list.
                     Create a few items in the RepairShop list for sample contacts.
             Create a flow
             In this section, you create a flow using Power Automate that creates an item in a list
             using the input value for the list column from an app created using Power Apps. You
             create the app that uses this flow in the next section.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. On the left-pane, select Flows.
                3. Select + New flow > Instant cloud flow.
                4. Enter flow name, such as FlowInApp.
                5. Under Choose how to trigger this flow, select Power Apps.
                6. Select Create.
                7. Select + New step.
       8. Under Choose an operation, search for or select SharePoint connector.
       9. Search for, or select Create item action.
       10. For Site Address, enter or choose your SharePoint site that has the lists Assets and
        RepairShop.
       11. For List Name, select the Assets list.
       12. For Title, choose Ask in Power Apps from the Dynamic content tab. The action
        automatically updates to Createitem_Title.
                                                 
        13. Choose values for AssetType Value, and RepairShop Id of your choice.
        14. Select Save.
        ） Important
        Arguments that pass from Power Apps to Power Automate are visible as network
        traffic and can be intercepted. Most traffic is likely harmless data that are irrelevant
        outside the application, for example arguments like "yes" or "Redmond".
        Evaluate the parameters passed to Power Automate and consider the
        consequences (if any) if they're changed by an exernal actor. To mitigate risks,
        validate the parameter values passed.
        For example, if you send sensitive data to a person in your organization through
        email, for example someuser@contoso.com, validate the address in Power Automate.
        You can check the incoming arguments to confirm the organization, @contoso.com,
        and only allow the flow to proceed if the right organization is present.
       Add a flow to an app
       In this section, you create an app using Power Apps that uses the flow created in the
       earlier section. The app uses text entered in a text box when the button is selected to
       trigger the flow to create an item in the selected list.
        1. Create a blank canvas app with a name such as AppWithFlow.
        2. Select + (Insert) on the left-pane.
        3. Select Text input control.
        4. Select Button control.
       5. On the canvas, move the button control below the text input control.
       6. Select Action menu at the top, and then select Power Automate.
         ７ Note
         Adding a flow to the selected control or component clears out any existing
         formula for the chosen property. For example, when you add a flow to a
         button's OnSelect property that has a complex formula, the flow addition
         clears out this formula. Ensure you make a copy of the formula before adding
         the flow. However, this behavior is different when adding flow with the Power
         Automate pane enabled. Learn more in Reference a flow.
                                           
        Alternatively, if you enabled the Enable Power Automate pane preview feature,
        you can choose your flow from the left-pane inside Power Apps Studio.
          More information: Use Power Automate pane (preview)
         7. Select FlowInApp.
         8. In the formula bar, remove the formula for the selected OnVisible property.
         9. Select the text input control.
        10. From the top-left side of the screen, select the property list drop-down, and then
          select the Default property.
        11. In the formula bar, change the default property value from "Text input" to "Enter
          Asset Title".
        12. Select the button control.
        13. From the top-left side of the screen, select the property list drop-down, and then
          select the Text property.
        14. In the formula bar, change the text property value from "Button" to "Create
          Asset".
        15. From the top-left side property list, select the OnSelect property for the button.
        16. Enter the following formula in the formula bar.
            Power Fx
                    FlowInApp.Run(TextInput1.Text)
                 In this formula, FlowInApp is the name of the flow you added using Power
                 Automate. The .Run specifies the flow to execute. The flow executes with
                 TextInput1 text input control added to this canvas, with the value entered in this
                 text box (.Text).
                 When this button is selected, the app runs the flow with the value from the text
                 input control, passing the text value to the flow to execute. And the flow creates
                 the list item with this text input value along with rest of the selection inside the
                 flow configuration.
              17. Save and publish the app.
            Test the flow
            Now that you have both the flow and the app created, run the app and verify the
            creation of an item inside the selected list.
               1. In Power Apps  , select Apps, and then, select the AppWithFlow app.
       2. Enter a value in the text input box, and then select Create Asset.
       3. Verify that the item is created in your list.
      Now that you created a sample app that runs a flow and adds an item inside a list, you
      can create more complex applications. Your apps can interact with Power Automate and
              manipulate data inside various data sources.
              Related information
                    Use Power Automate pane (preview)
                    Add and configure controls
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
            Convert rules to expressions
            Article • 03/16/2023
            The capability to create rules in canvas apps for automated app modification based on
            specified criteria will be removed. This feature was retired in 2019 and will now be fully
            removed.
            You'll have a few months to convert the rules into expressions using a converter. If there
            are any rules remaining in your canvas app that haven't been converted by the end of
            this period, the system will perform the conversion automatically.
               ） Important
               Effective October 14, 2019, the rules feature in canvas apps is deprecated. More
               information: Blog: Canvas Rules feature deprecation  .
            Convert rules
            When you edit an app that has rules, you'll receive a prompt to convert them. The
            converter helps in migrating the rules within your app to a format that is compatible
            with future versions of Power Apps Studio. By utilizing the rules conditions in your app,
            the converter substitutes the references with corresponding inline expressions.
            Follow these steps to convert rules in your app:
               1. Open your app for editing and go to the Rules panel.
               2. On the warning message, select Convert rules.
       3. A dialog opens, which shows all the rules which will be converted. The rule name is
        shown on the left, and its associated conditional expression is shown on the right.
        On the Convert rules dialog box, select Convert now.
      When the conversion is complete, a notification appears to alert you whether the
      conversion was successful. Formulas that previously referenced rule names have been
      updated to directly use their associated conditional expression instead.
      Before the conversion, the Power Fx formula references rule names in the formula in
      place of their associated conditional expressions.
      After the conversion, rule name references have been removed and replaced. In this
      example, Rule2 was converted to Slider1.Value > 50.
       Reverting the conversion
       When the conversion is done, the rules are converted to the corresponding expression.
       During the conversion period, you can revert your changes to bring the rules back to
       your app for review and troubleshooting if necessary. While in the same session, you
       can use the Undo button or Ctrl-Z to revert the rule conversion. If you save the app, you
       can restore the previous version to revert the change. However, you will be prompted to
       convert the rules again the next time the app is opened for editing.
       Known Issues
       If your rules are in an error state or are empty, they will be replaced with the following
       formula: Boolean(Blank()). This formula preserves the behavior of rules in this state.
       Create or update bulk records in Power
       Apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Updating or creating records in bulk allows you to act on many records at once. Here
       are some scenarios where you would want to bulk update records:
          You have many photos and want to upload them all at once.
          You want to submit a time sheet with a week’s data at once.
       You might also want to create new records in bulk. For example, when your app has to
       select many images, you might want to upload them all at once.
       This article explains how to update or create bulk records depending on your scenario.
       Formulas to bulk update records
       The formulas in this section can be used to bulk update records in canvas apps.
          Patch() function—Use this function when the collection matches the data source.
            Power Fx
            Patch( DataSource, Collection )
          ForAll() function + nested Patch + disambiguation operator—Use this function
          when the data sources have different columns that you need to join.
            Power Fx
            ForAll( Collection,
                Patch( DataSource, 
                    LookUp( DataSource, Id = Collection[@Id] ),
                    { Column: Value }
                )
            )
          AddColumns() function—This function can be used to provide a lookup reference
          in the Collection that contains the updates to the DataSource if it doesn't have
          fields that easily reference the table.
       Example of a checklist
       This example uses a checklist of tasks. When you're done with a few tasks, you can mark
       them as complete. You could extend this scenario to a product launch checklist, home
       inspection checklist, or other lists.
       The following screenshot shows the checklist items in Microsoft Excel file. You can check
       off the tasks related to your blogging or posting on social media in this example. The
       table in Excel is called ChecklistItems.
       The example uses collections to demo this behavior. The approach works for any tabular
       backend of your choice.
       The Excel data is imported as static data into the app. On the App.OnStart property,
       Collect() the Excel ChecklistItems data into the ChecklistItemsSource collection. The
       ChecklistItemsSource collection will be used as the source data throughout the app.
       This example uses a two screen app:
          Screen 1—Used to review the checklist items and mark them as complete.
          Screen 2—Used to create a new checklist item. The new item will be added to
          ChecklistItemsSource collection.
                           
       Every time a checklist item is checked, it's added into a collection called CheckedItems. It
       uses the formula below on the OnCheck event property of the checkbox control. If the
       item is already checked and is part of the collection, it's removed. If not, the checked
       item is added.
       You can toggle the status between Done and Pending, or you can use the Oncheck and
       OnUncheck events:
         Power Fx
         If( !IsBlank( 
                 LookUp( CheckedItems, Id = ThisItem.Id )
             ),
             Remove( CheckedItems, ThisItem ),
             Collect( CheckedItems, ThisItem )
         )
       Create multiple records at once
       There are different ways of bulk updating records depending on the scenario. This
       section explains how to create multiple records at once in canvas apps.
       When the user selects Done in the above example, you need to update
       ChecklistItemsSource with changes from the CheckedItems collection.
         For columns with the same name
         If your source and destination have the same column names, you can use a Patch
         statement. For example, ChecklistItemsSource and the CheckedItems collections have
         the same column names. You can use the formula below to update the source at once
         with all the changes.
           Power Fx
           Patch( ChecklistItemsSource, CheckedItems )
         For columns with different names
         If the columns in source and destination tables vary, use ForAll with Patch instead.
         With ForAll(), you must loop through each record using a condition. The condition is a
         comparison between similar columns (for example, Id column) of the different tables.
         This comparison becomes complicated when the source table and the destination table
         have the same column names (for example, if ProjectId was a column found in both
         Project and PurchaseOrder tables).
         Here are the alternatives:
         Use with disambiguation operator
         To update the Status of CheckedItems to "Done", when the source and destination table
         column names are the same, use this formula:
           Power Fx
           ForAll( CheckedItems,
               Patch( ChecklistItemsSource, 
                   LookUp( ChecklistItemsSource, Id = CheckedItems[@Id] ),
                   { Status: "Done" }
               )
           )
         For each item in the CheckedItems collection, the Id (represented by the disambiguation
         operator CheckedItems[@Id]) is compared against the Id column of the
         ChecklistItemsSource collection. Then, each matched record is updated with the status
         as "Done". The disambiguation operator is used when two columns belonging to
       different tables have the same name. If you don't use this disambiguation operator,
       you'll see that only the first record gets updated.
       Use an extra label within the gallery
       If you don't want to use an extra collection to store the checked items, you can try the
       following steps:
         1. Create an extra label within the gallery template.
           a. Bind it to the Id column.
          b. Rename the label to IdText.
         2. Remove the code on the OnCheck of the checkbox control mentioned above.
         3. Write the following formula on the OnSelect event of the Done Button:
            Power Fx
            ForAll(
                Filter( ChecklistGallery.AllItems,
                  StatusCheckbox.Value = true
                ),
                Patch( ChecklistItemsSource,
                  LookUp( ChecklistItemsSource, Id = IdText.Text ),
                  { Status: "Done" }
                )
            )
       Here, you're directly applying the filter on the Gallery's items to find the checked items.
       For each record in the filtered items, a match is found on the ChecklistItemsSource
       table by comparing the Id with value stored in IdText label.
       The status is updated to "Done".
       The disambiguation operator can't be used on the Gallery's items. Instead, you can store
       a label within the gallery and reference it for comparison.
       Use an alternative to create a new column with a different label
       This method is an alternative to using the disambiguation operator or a label inside
       gallery.
       While creating a local copy of your data source, you can use the AddColumns() formula
       to create a new column with a different label (NewId) for the Id column in your source
              collection. When using ForAll with Patch, you compare the NewId column against the Id
              column in your source data.
              Bulk create records
              You may want to create new records in bulk if, for example, you want to upload many
              images all at once.
              Here's an example using Example of a checklist.
              On the Create Checklist Items screen, each time you select Add, the information is
              stored in the NewChecklistItems collection. When you select Submit, ForAll() with
              Patch() are used to update the source collection.
                Power Fx
                ForAll( NewChecklistItems,
                    Patch( ChecklistItemsSource,
                        Defaults( ChecklistItemsSource ),{
                            Id: Id,
                            Category: Category,
                            Description: Description,
                            Status:Status
                        }
                    )
                )
              For each item in the NewChecklistItems, a new record is created (indicated by
              Defaults(ChecklistItemsSource)) in the ChecklistItemsSource collection. The Id is set
              to the Id from the NewChecklistItems collection. Similarly, Category, Description, and
              Status values are set.
              See also
                    Formula reference for Power Apps
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Power Apps Ideas
       Article • 03/20/2025
       Power Fx is the open-source programming language for low code. It enables millions of
       people with Excel-like skills to add advanced logic to their apps. However, sometimes
       it's not easy to write a formula, even for the most experienced Power Fx users, as it can
       sometimes take a lot of time searching for, learning about, and debugging complex
       formulas.
       Power Apps Ideas is created to help everyone from the new makers to the seasoned IT
       pros to ease and speed up the formula authoring experience by using the power of AI
       models.
       If you’re struggling with Power Fx and don’t want to spend time on it, try Power Apps
       Ideas.
       Use Power Apps Ideas in your app
       When you're building a canvas app, Power Apps Ideas will automatically suggest ideas
       for supported controls such as Gallery, Data table, Text box, Drop down, Combo box,
       and Text label.
       When you select the name field in a gallery, you'll see an idea for a formula that you
       may want to use. However, if you select the plus icon, then you won’t see an idea
       because we currently don’t have ideas for icons.
       There are two methods to benefit from Power Apps Ideas in your app.
       Transform natural language to Power Fx formulas
       You can enter your requirements in plain natural language (currently limited to English
       (en-us)), and Power Apps will transform your requirement to a Power Fx formula.
       For details, go to Transform natural language to Power Fx formulas.
       Dismiss an idea
       If you don’t want to see Ideas, select the close button (X) and then confirm that you
       don’t want to see Ideas anymore.
       If you want to see Ideas again, right-click on the control to see suggested Ideas.
       Next steps
          Transform natural language to Power Fx formulas
       See also
       Formula reference
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Transform natural language to Power Fx
       formulas
       Article • 01/18/2023
       Power Apps Ideas can generate ideas for formulas using the following controls on
       different properties:
          Gallery
          Data table
          Text box
          Drop down
          Combo box
          Text label
       Power Apps Ideas also supports Microsoft Dataverse, Microsoft Lists, SharePoint library,
       and Excel as connectors. So, if you're using one of the supported controls and want to
       write a formula for Gallery or Dropdown items, or for Label’s text content, color, or
       visibility, then check out Power Apps Ideas.
       For example, instead of figuring out how to write the following formula ...
         Power Fx
         Filter('Table1', StartsWith('fullname', "Yvonne"))
       ... You can type 'name starts with Yvonne instead.
       To begin, let’s look at a simple app to see how you can use Power Apps Ideas to help
       write formulas.
       You can follow the steps mentioned in Create a canvas app from Microsoft Dataverse to
       generate that app using the Accounts table from Dataverse.
         1. Select BrowseGallery1, which is bound to the Accounts table.
         2. Select Sort, filter, and search on the ideas box.
       3. Select one of the default suggestions to check how it works or start entering your
        own query in natural language such as English (en-us).
       4. When typing you can use the default query, modify it, or describe it in your own
        way.
       5. You'll see one or more formula suggestions produced. Let’s use the example
        search accounts where name in textinput. You'll see two suggestions in the
        results. Each of those formula suggestions includes three parts:
           Accounts where the text in TextInput1 appears in name. This is trying to
           explain what the suggested formula is doing so that it's easier for users who
                          aren't familiar with Power Fx to understand the result. The names of the
                          components used in the app are shown in bold.
                          Apply to: Items: This suggests which property the formula will be applied to.
                          As Power Apps controls have many properties, Ideas can identify which
                          property a formula should be applied to.
                          The formula suggestion in this scenario is Search('Accounts',
                          TextInput1.Text, "name").
                 6. Select your preferred suggestion and then select Apply. In this case, let's select the
                    first suggestion since it's the best fit. The formula gets updated automatically and
                    runs so you can check the result in your app. You can then decide whether to keep
                    the selected formula or modify it.
              More examples
              Consider the following examples for inspiration while working with Power Apps Ideas.
                                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
               Scenario                       Description                   Ideas example
               Sort your table                Sort by a single column       sort accounts by Account Name
                                                                            sort accounts by Account Name A-
                                                                            Z
                                                                            sort accounts by Account Name Z-
                                                                            A
                                              Sort accounts by Account
                 Scenario                         Description                     Ideas example
                                                  Name and Created On
                                                                                  sort accounts by Account Name A-
                                                                                  Z and Created On latest on top
                                                  Sort existing tables            sort Gallery3 by Account Name Z to
                                                                                  A
                 Filter or search table by        A number condition              accounts with length of Account
                 some conditions                                                  Name bigger than 10
                                                  A date condition                accounts created a week ago,
                                                                                  accounts modified last 3 days
                                                  A text condition                accounts with name contains Karen
                                                  A few conditions                accounts whose name contains
                                                                                  Karen and created 7 days ago
                                                  A choice value                  inactive accounts
                                                  Search table by user input      search accounts with name in
                                                                                  textinput
                                                  Find a single record            first record in accounts where name
                                                                                  contains Karen
                                                  Find records on the top or      top 10 accounts
                                                  the bottom of the table
                                                                                  last 10 accounts
                 Conditional formatting           A number condition              accounts with length of Account
                 (apply to color and visible)                                     Name bigger than 10
                                                  A date condition                red if created 7 days ago
                                                  A text condition                blue if name contains Karen
                 Text generation                  Numbers                         count of gallery sum of slider1 and
                                                                                  slider2
                                                  String                          label4 and label5 Trim
                                                                                  textinput1First 3 characters of
                                                                                  TextInput1
               Best practices
           To get the best results, follow these tips when writing the plain natural language query
           in the Ideas pane.
                Leverage default queries to see what kind of scenarios are supported.
                Be precise in your query. Ideas can recognize controls such as tables and columns.
                However, if you don't get a suggestion, try using the full name of the assets you’re
                referencing. For example, use TextInput1 when you have multiple text input
                controls in the app. This way the system knows which control you're referring to.
           Limitations
             ７ Note
             We're improving the model so it can accomplish more complex tasks and support
             more functions, controls, and properties. If you have a wish list, submit your ideas
             through Power Apps Ideas - Power Platform Community   .
           Power Apps Ideas currently has the following limitations:
                Regions and language: Currently available in environments created inside the
                United States, with English (en-us) set as the browser's default language.
                Recognizes control value of TextInput, Dropdown, DatePicker, Slider, Toggle,
                Checkbox, and Radio as input.
                                                                           ﾉ Expand table
                 Controls                                           Properties
                 Gallery, Data table, Drop down, Combo box          Items
                 Text Box, Label                                    Text, Color, Visible
                Data sources: Currently Ideas supports Dataverse tables, Microsoft Lists, and Excel
                sheets.
                Functions: See Supported Power Fx functions. We’ll continue to add support for
                more functions.
                Data types: Supports Text, Whole Number, Date and Time, Date Only, Decimal
                Number, Choice, Choices, Yes/No Lookup. Not supported: File and Image.
         This feature's model understands some commonly used expressions in natural
         language. For example, it can translate from latest on top, big to small to a
         descending order and oldest on top, small to big to ascending order. And it can
         understand most of the context so even if you didn't specify the table names, it will
         make the best prediction based on the current table that is bound to the control.
       Supported Power Fx functions
       Functions supported by the Power Apps Ideas feature:
       Abs
       Average
       Concat
       Countif
       Countrows
       Date
       DateAdd
       DateDiff
       DateTimeValue
       DateValue
       Day
       Distinct
       EndsWith
       Filter
       FirstN
       Hour
       If
       IsBlank
      IsEmpty
      LastN
      Lower
      Max
      Min
      Minute
      Month
      Not
      Now
      Power
      Proper
      Rand
      Round
      RoundDown
      RoundUp
      Search
      Second
      Split
      Sort
      SortByColumns
      StartsWith
      Sum
      Time
      TimeValue
             Today
             Trim
             TrimEnds
             Upper
             Weekday
             Year
             Give feedback to Microsoft
             If you have feedback for this feature—for example, you find the formula suggestions
             inaccurate or you have suggestions or ideas to share with us—you can find the feedback
             card in the Ideas panel. By selecting Send feedback, you can enter your thoughts. (Don't
             include confidential or personal information in your feedback.)
             Microsoft is committed to developing and deploying AI technologies in a responsible
             manner. If you find any inappropriate or absurd results generated by Power Apps Ideas,
             look in the same feedback card for a Report it now   link below the feedback box that
             can help us keep our AI model behaving in a responsible manner. For a timely response,
             select Threat type as "URL" and Incident type as "Responsible AI" as shown in the
             following screenshot.
              See also
                    Formula reference
                    Power Apps Ideas overview
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
    Formula reference - canvas apps
    This article explains all the functions you can use in canvas apps.
    Formulas in canvas apps combine several elements. Here are the main types:
       Functions take parameters, perform an operation, and return a value. For example,
       Sqrt(25) returns 5. Functions are similar to Microsoft Excel functions. Some functions can
       have side effects, like SubmitForm, which you use only in a behavior formula such as
       Button.OnSelect.
       Signals return information about the environment. For example, Location returns the
       device's current GPS coordinates. Signals don't take parameters or have side effects.
       Enumerations return a predefined constant value. For example, Color is an enumeration
       with predefined values like Color.Red and Color.Blue. Common enumerations are
       included here, and function-specific enumerations are described with the function.
       Named operators, like ThisItem and Self, let you access information from within a
       container.
    Other elements include:
       Operators and identifiers
       Controls and their properties
       Data types
    A
    Abs – Returns the absolute value of a number.
    Acceleration – Reads the acceleration sensor in your device.
    Acos – Returns the arccosine of a number, in radians.
    Acot – Returns the arccotangent of a number, in radians.
    AddColumns – Returns a table with additional columns.
    And – Boolean logic AND. Returns true if all arguments are true. You can also use the &&
    operator.
    AIClassify – Classifies text into one or more categories.
    AIExtract – Extracts specified entities like registration numbers, phone numbers, or people’s
    names.
    AIReply – Drafts a reply to the message that you provide.
    AISentiment – Detects the sentiment of the text that you provide.
    AISummarize – Summarizes the text that you provide.
    AITranslate – Translates text from one language to another.
    App – Provides information about the currently running app and lets you control the app's
    behavior.
    Asin – Returns the arcsine of a number, in radians.
    Assert – Evaluates to true or false in a test.
    As – Names the current record in gallery, form, and record scope functions like ForAll, With,
    and Sum.
    AsType – Treats a record reference as a specific table type.
    Atan – Returns the arctangent of a number, in radians.
    Atan2 – Returns the arctangent based on an (x,y) coordinate, in radians.
    Average – Calculates the average of a table expression or a set of arguments.
    B
    Back – Shows the previous screen.
    Blank – Returns a blank value you can use to insert a NULL value in a data source.
    Boolean – Converts a text string, number, or dynamic value to a Boolean value.
    C
    Calendar – Retrieves information about the calendar for the current locale.
    Char – Translates a character code into a string.
    Choices – Returns a table of the possible values for a lookup column.
    Clear – Deletes all data from a collection.
    ClearCollect – Deletes all data from a collection and then adds a set of records.
    ClearData – Clears a collection or all collections from an app host such as a local device.
    Clock – Retrieves information about the clock for the current locale.
    Coalesce – Replaces blank values while leaving non-blank values unchanged.
    Collect – Creates a collection or adds data to a data source.
    Color – Sets a property to a built-in color value.
    ColorFade – Fades a color value.
    ColorValue – Translates a CSS color name or a hex code to a color value.
    Column – Retrieves column names and values from a Dynamic value.
    ColumnNames – Retrieves column names and values from a Dynamic value.
    Compass – Returns your compass heading.
    Concat – Concatenates strings in a data source.
    Concatenate – Concatenates strings.
    Concurrent – Evaluates multiple formulas concurrently with one another.
    Confirm - Display a confirmation dialog box.
    Connection – Returns information about your network connection.
    Copy – Copies text to the clipboard on the device where the app is running.
    Count – Counts table records that contain numbers.
    Cos – Returns the cosine of an angle specified in radians.
    Cot – Returns the cotangent of an angle specified in radians.
    CountA – Counts table records that aren't empty.
    CountIf – Counts table records that satisfy a condition.
    CountRows – Counts table records.
    D
    DataSourceInfo – Provides information about a data source.
    Date – Returns a date/time value, based on Year, Month, and Day values.
    DateAdd – Adds days, months, quarters, or years to a date/time value.
     DateDiff – Subtracts two date values, and shows the result in days, months, quarters, or years.
     DateTime – Returns a date/time value, based on both date and time components.
     DateTimeValue – Converts a date and time string to a date/time value.
     DateValue – Converts a date-only string to a date/time value.
     Day – Retrieves the day portion of a date/time value.
     Dec2Hex – Convert a number to a hexadecimal text string.
     Defaults – Returns the default values for a data source.
     Degrees – Converts radians to degrees.
     Disable – Disables a signal, such as Location for reading the GPS.
     Distinct – Summarizes records of a table, removing duplicates.
     Download – Downloads a file from the web to the local device.
     DropColumns – Returns a table with one or more columns removed.
     E
     EDate – Adds or subtracts months to a date, without changing the day of the month.
     EditForm – Resets a form control for editing of an item.
     Enable – Enables a signal, such as Location for reading the GPS.
     EncodeHTML – Encodes characters that need to be escaped to be used in an HTML context.
     EncodeUrl – Encodes special characters using URL encoding.
     EndsWith – Checks whether a text string ends with another text string.
     EOMonth – Adds or subtracts months to a date, returning the last day of that month.
     Error – Create a custom error or pass through an error.
     Errors – Provides error information for previous changes to a data source.
     exactin – Checks if a text string is contained within another text string or table, case
     dependent. Also used to check if a record is in a table.
     Exit – Exits the currently running app and optionally signs out the current user.
     Exp – Returns e raised to a power.
     F
     Filter – Returns a filtered table based on one or more criteria.
     Find – Checks whether one string appears within another and returns the location.
     First – Returns the first record of a table.
     FirstN – Returns the first set of records (N records) of a table.
     Float – Converts a string to a Float value.
     ForAll – Calculates values and performs actions for all records of a table.
     G
     GroupBy – Returns a table with records grouped together.
     GUID – Converts a GUID string to a GUID value or creates a new GUID value.
     H
     HashTags – Extracts the hashtags (#strings) from a string.
     Hex2Dec – Convert a hexadecimal text string to a number.
     Host – Provides information about the current host running the app.
     Hour – Returns the hour portion of a date/time value.
     I
     If – Returns one value if a condition is true and another value if not.
     IfError – Detects errors and provides an alternative value or takes action.
     in – Checks if a text string is contained within another text string or table, case independent.
     Also used to check if a record is in a table.
     Index – Returns a record from a table based on ordered position.
     Int – Rounds down to the nearest integer.
     IsBlank – Checks for a blank value.
     IsBlankOrError – Checks for a blank value or error.
     IsEmpty – Checks for an empty table.
     IsError – Checks for an error.
     IsMatch – Checks a string against a pattern. Regular expressions can be used.
     IsNumeric – Checks for a numeric value.
     ISOWeekNum – Returns the ISO week number of a date/time value.
     IsToday – Checks whether a date/time value is sometime today in the user's time zone.
     IsType – Checks whether a record reference refers to a specific table type.
     J
     JSON – Generates a JSON text string for a table, a record, or a value.
     L
     Language – Returns the language tag of the current user.
     Last – Returns the last record of a table.
     LastN – Returns the last set of records (N records) of a table.
     Launch – Launches a webpage or a canvas app.
     Left – Returns the left-most portion of a string.
     Len – Returns the length of a string.
     Ln – Returns the natural log.
     LoadData – Loads a collection from an app host such as a local device.
     Location – Returns your location as a map coordinate by using the Global Positioning System
     (GPS) and other information.
     Log – Returns the logarithm in any base of a number.
     LookUp – Looks up a single record in a table based on one or more criteria.
    Lower – Converts letters in a string of text to all lowercase.
    M
    Match – Extracts a substring based on a pattern. Regular expressions can be used.
    MatchAll – Extracts multiple substrings based on a pattern. Regular expressions can be used.
    Max – Maximum value of a table expression or a set of arguments.
    Mid – Returns the middle portion of a string.
    Min – Minimum value of a table expression or a set of arguments.
    Minute – Retrieves the minute portion of a date/time value.
    Mod – Returns the remainder after a dividend is divided by a divisor.
    Month – Retrieves the month portion of a date/time value.
    N
    Navigate – Changes which screen is displayed.
    NewForm – Resets a form control for creation of an item.
    Not – Boolean logic NOT. Returns true if its argument is false, and returns false if its argument
    is true. You can also use the ! operator.
    Notify – Displays a banner message to the user.
    Now – Returns the current date/time value in the user's time zone.
    O
    Or – Boolean logic OR. Returns true if any of its arguments are true. You can also use the ||
    operator.
    P
    Param – Access parameters passed to a canvas app when launched.
    Parent – Provides access to a container control's properties.
    ParseJSON – Converts JSON document represented as text to a Dynamic value value.
    Patch – Modifies or creates a record in a data source, or merges records outside of a data
    source.
    PDF – Export contents from the current screen to an object for use in multiple scenarios.
    Pi – Returns the number π.
    PlainText – Removes HTML and XML tags from a string.
    Power – Returns a number raised to a power. You can also use the ^ operator.
    Print - Opens the current screen in the default browser print dialog.
    Proper – Converts the first letter of each word in a string to uppercase, and converts the rest to
    lowercase.
    R
    Radians – Converts degrees to radians.
    Rand – Returns a pseudo-random number between 0 and 1.
    RandBetween – Returns a pseudo-random number between two numbers.
    ReadNFC – Reads a Near Field Communication (NFC) tag.
    RecordInfo – Provides information about a record of a data source.
    RecordOf - Extracts the type of a record from a table.
    Refresh – Refreshes the records of a data source.
    Relate – Relates records of two tables through a one-to-many or many-to-many relationship.
    Remove – Removes one or more specific records from a data source.
    RemoveIf – Removes records from a data source based on a condition.
    RenameColumns – Renames columns of a table.
    Replace – Replaces part of a string with another string, by starting position of the string.
    RequestHide – Hides a SharePoint form.
    Reset – Resets an input control to its default value, discarding any user changes.
    ResetForm – Resets a form control for editing of an existing item.
    Revert – Reloads and clears errors for the records of a data source.
    RGBA – Returns a color value for a set of red, green, blue, and alpha components.
    Right – Returns the right-most portion of a string.
    Round – Rounds to the closest number.
    RoundDown – Rounds down to the largest previous number.
    RoundUp – Rounds up to the smallest next number.
    S
    SaveData – Saves a collection to an app host such as a local device.
    Search – Finds records in a table that contain a string in one of their columns.
    Second – Retrieves the second portion of a date/time value.
    Select – Simulates a select action on a control, causing the OnSelect formula to be evaluated.
    Self – Provides access to the properties of the current control.
    Sequence – Generate a table of sequential numbers, useful when iterating with ForAll.
    Set – Sets the value of a global variable.
    SetFocus – Moves input focus to a specific control.
    SetProperty – Simulates interactions with input controls.
    ShowColumns – Returns a table with only selected columns.
    ShowHostInfo – Displays information to the user in the app.
    Shuffle – Randomly reorders the records of a table.
    Sin – Returns the sine of an angle specified in radians.
    Sort – Returns a sorted table based on a formula.
    SortByColumns – Returns a sorted table based on one or more columns.
    Split – Splits a text string into a table of substrings.
    Sqrt – Returns the square root of a number.
    StartsWith – Checks if a text string begins with another text string.
    StdevP – Returns the standard deviation of its arguments.
    Substitute – Replaces part of a string with another string, by matching strings.
    SubmitForm – Saves the item in a form control to the data source.
    Sum – Calculates the sum of a table expression or a set of arguments.
    Switch – Matches with a set of values and then evaluates a corresponding formula.
    T
    Table – Creates a temporary table.
    Tan – Returns the tangent of an angle specified in radians.
    Text – Converts any value and formats a number or date/time value to a string of text.
    ThisItem – Returns the record for the current item in a gallery or form control.
    ThisRecord – Returns the record for the current item in a record scope function, such as ForAll,
    With, and Sum.
    Time – Returns a date/time value, based on Hour, Minute, and Second values.
    TimeValue – Converts a time-only string to a date/time value.
    TimeZoneOffset – Returns the difference between UTC and the user's local time in minutes.
    Today – Returns the current date-only value.
    Trace – Provide additional information in your test results.
    Trim – Removes extra spaces from the ends and interior of a string of text.
    TrimEnds – Removes extra spaces from the ends of a string of text only.
    Trunc – Truncates the number to only the integer portion by removing any decimal portion.
    Type - Defines a user defined type.
    U
      Ungroup – Removes a grouping.
      UniChar – Translates a Unicode code into a string.
      Unrelate – Unrelates records of two tables from a one-to-many or many-to-many relationship.
      Update – Replaces a record in a data source.
      UpdateContext – Sets the value of one or more context variables of the current screen.
      UpdateIf – Modifies a set of records in a data source based on a condition.
      Upper – Converts letters in a string of text to all uppercase.
      User – Returns information about the current user.
      V
      Validate – Checks whether the value of a single column or a complete record is valid for a data
      source.
      Value – Converts a string to a number.
      VarP – Returns the variance of its arguments.
      ViewForm – Resets a form control for viewing of an existing item.
      W
      Weekday – Retrieves the weekday portion of a date/time value.
      WeekNum – Returns the week number of a date/time value.
      With – Calculates values and performs actions for a single record, including inline records of
      named values.
      Y
      Year – Retrieves the year portion of a date/time value.
      Last updated on 06/19/2025
         Abs, Exp, Ln, Power, Log, and Sqrt functions
         Article • 04/20/2025
                                                                                        ﾉ
                                                                                           Expand table
           Functions  Applies to
           Abs             Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Dataverse formula
           Exp        columns      Model-driven apps    Power Platform CLI    Dataverse functions 
           Ln         Power Pages
           Power
           Sqrt
           Log             Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Model-driven apps
                           Power Platform CLI   Dataverse functions   Power Pages
         Calculates absolute values, logarithms, square roots, and the results of raising e or any number
         to specified powers.
         Description
         The Abs function returns the non-negative value of its argument. If a number is negative, Abs
         returns the positive equivalent.
         The Exp function returns e raised to the power of its argument. The transcendental number e
         begins 2.7182818...
         The Ln function returns the natural logarithm (base e) of its argument.
         The Power function returns a number raised to a power. It's equivalent to using the ^ operator.
         The Log function returns the logarithm of its first argument in the base specified by its second
         argument (or 10 if not specified).
         The Sqrt function returns the number that, when multiplied by itself, equals its argument.
         If you pass a single number, the return value is a single result based on the function called. If
         you pass a single-column table that contains numbers, the return value is a single-column
         table of results in a Value column, one result for each record in the argument's table. If you
         have a multi-column table, you can shape it into a single-column table, as working with tables
         describes.
         If an argument would result in an undefined valued, the result is blank. Which can happen with
         square roots and logarithms of negative numbers.
          Syntax
          Abs( Number )
          Exp( Number )
          Ln( Number )
          Sqrt( Number )
                 Number - Required. Number to operate on.
          Power( Base, Exponent )
                 Base - Required. Base number to raise.
                 Exponent - Required. The exponent to which the base number is raised.
          Log( Number, Base )
                 Number - Required. Number to calculate the logarithm.
                 Base - Optional. The base of the logarithm to calculate. By default, 10 (when not
                 specified).
          Abs( SingleColumnTable )
          Exp( SingleColumnTable )
          Ln( SingleColumnTable )
          Sqrt( SingleColumnTable )
                 SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of numbers to operate on.
          Examples
          Single number
                                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
            Formula           Description                                                                Result
            Abs( -55 )        Returns the number without the negative sign.                              55
            Exp( 2 )          Returns e raised to the power of 2, or e * e.                              7.389056...
            Ln( 100 )         Returns the natural logarithm (base e) of the number 100.                  4.605170...
            Log( 100 )        Returns the logarithm in base 10 of the number 100.                        2
            Log( 64, 2 )      Returns the logarithm in base 2 of the number 64.                          6
            Formula           Description                                                                  Result
            Power( 5, 3 )     Returns 5 raised to the power of 3, or 5 * 5 * 5.                            125
            Sqrt( 9 )         Returns the number that, when multiplied by itself, results in 9.            3
           Single-column table
           The examples in this section use a data source that's named ValueTable and that contains this
           data:
                                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
            Value
            9
            -4
            2
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
            Formula              Description                      Result
            Abs( ValueTable )    Returns the absolute value of    A single-column table with a Value column
                                 each number in the table.        containing the following values: 9, 4, 2
            Exp( ValueTable )    Returns e raised to the power    A single-column table with a Value column
                                 of each number in the table.     containing the following values: 8103.083927...,
                                                                  0.018315..., 7.389056...
            Ln( ValueTable )     Returns the natural logarithm    A single-column table with a Value column
                                 of each number in the table.     containing the following values: 2.197224..., Blank(),
                                                                  0.693147...
            Sqrt( ValueTable )   Returns the square root of       A single-column table with a Value column
                                 each number in the table         containing the following values: 3, Blank(),
                                                                  1.414213...
           Step-by-step example
              1. Add a Text input control, and name it Source.
              2. Add a Label control, and set its Text property to this formula:
                 Sqrt( Value( Source.Text ) )
      3. Type a number into Source, and confirm that the Label control shows the square root of
       the number that you typed.
             Acceleration, App, Compass,
             Connection, and Location signals in
             Power Apps
             Article • 03/22/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps
             Returns information about the app's environment, such as where the user is located in
             the world and which screen is displayed.
             Description and syntax
             Signals are values that can change at any time, independent of how the user may be
             interacting with the app. Formulas that are based on signals automatically recalculate as
             these values change.
             Signals typically return a record of information. You can use and store this information
             as a record, or you can extract individual properties by using the . operator.
                ７ Note
                The Acceleration and Compass functions return accurate values in a native player
                such as on iOS or Android, but those functions return zero values as you create or
                modify an app in the browser.
             Acceleration
             The Acceleration signal returns the device's acceleration in three dimensions relative to
                                                                                         2
             the device's screen. Acceleration is measured in g units of 9.81 m/second  or 32.2
                       2
             ft/second  (the acceleration that the Earth imparts to objects at its surface due to
             gravity).
                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
              Property                Description
              Acceleration.X          Right and left. Right is a positive number.
              Acceleration.Y          Forward and back. Forward is a positive number.
               Property                 Description
               Acceleration.Z           Up and down. Up is a positive number.
              App
              Among other properties, the App object includes a signal that indicates which screen is
              showing.
                                                                                            ﾉ Expand table
               Property            Description
               App.ActiveScreen    Screen that's showing. Returns a screen object, which you can use to
                                   reference properties of the screen or compare to another screen to
                                   determine which screen is showing. You can use the Back or Navigate
                                   function to change the screen that's showing.
              More information: App object documentation.
              Compass
              The Compass signal returns the compass heading of the top of the screen. The heading
              is based on magnetic north.
                                                                                            ﾉ
                                                                                                Expand table
               Property                Description
               Compass.Heading         Heading in degrees. Returns a number 0 to 360, and 0 is north.
              Connection
              The Connection signal returns the information about the network connection. When on
              a metered connection, you may want to limit how much data you send or receive over
              the network. Or, if your app is enabled for offline, you may want to display different
              information depending on the current sync state.
                                                                                            ﾉ Expand table
              Property              Description
              Connection.Connected  Returns a Boolean true or false value that indicates whether the device
                                    is connected to a network.
              Connection.Metered    Returns a Boolean true or false value that indicates whether the
                                    connection is metered.
              Connection.Sync       Returns an enum named ConnectionSync which holds the current
                                    synchronization state for an app that is enabled for offline.
            Below are the enums values available for Connection.Sync.
                                                                                  ﾉ
                                                                                      Expand table
              Enum value                  Description
              Connected                   Your device is connected to the network and your app is ready
                                          to work offline
              ConnectedWithWarning        Your device is connected with a warning.
              ConnectedPendingUpsync      Some data on your device must be synchronized with the
                                          service.
              ConnectedError              There was an error on the last synchronization attempt.
              ConnectedRefresh            Your app is currently synchronizing data with the service.
              NotConnected                Your device isn't connected to the service.
              NotConnectedWithWarning     The last synchronization warning.
              NotConnectedPendingUpsync   There are updates on your device waiting to be synchronized.
              NotConnectedSyncError       The last synchronization error.
            Location
            The Location signal returns the location of the device based on the Global Positioning
            System (GPS) and other device information, such as cell-tower communications and IP
            address.
            When a user accesses the location information for the first time, the device may prompt
            that user to allow access to this information.
            As the location changes, dependencies on the location will continuously recalculate,
            which will consume power from the device's battery. To conserve battery life, you can
               use the Enable and Disable functions to turn location updates on and off. Location is
               automatically turned off if the displayed screen doesn't depend on location information.
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
                 Property                Description
                 Location.Altitude       Returns a number that indicates the altitude, measured in meters, above
                                         sea level.
                 Location.Latitude       Returns a number, from –90 to 90, that indicates the latitude, as measured
                                         in degrees from the equator. A positive number indicates a location that's
                                         north of the equator.
                 Location.Longitude      Returns a number, from –180 to 180, that indicates the longitude, as
                                         measured in degrees from Greenwich, England. A positive number indicates
                                         a location that's east of Greenwich.
               Examples
               In a baseball field, a pitcher throws a phone from the pitcher's mound to a catcher at
               home plate. The phone is lying flat with respect to the ground, the top of the screen is
               pointed at the catcher, and the pitcher adds no spin. At this location, the phone has
               cellular network service that's metered but no WiFi. The PlayBall screen is displayed. The
               app is enabled for offline and is connected to the service.
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
                 Formula                     Description                               Result
                 Location.Latitude           Returns the latitude of the current       47.591
                                             location. The field is located at map
                                             coordinates 47.591 N, 122.333 W.          The latitude will change
                                                                                       continuously as the ball moves
                                                                                       between the pitcher and the
                                                                                       catcher.
                 Location.Longitude          Returns the longitude of the current      122.333
                                             location.
                                                                                       The longitude will change
                                                                                       continuously as the ball moves
                                                                                       between the pitcher and the
                                                                                       catcher.
                 Location                    Returns the latitude and longitude        { Latitude: 47.591,
                                             of the current location, as a record.     Longitude: 122.333 }
                Formula                    Description                             Result
                Compass.Heading            Returns the compass heading of the      230.25
                                           top of the screen. At this field, home
                                           plate is roughly southwest from the
                                           pitcher's mound.
                Acceleration.X             Returns the acceleration of the         0
                                           device side to side. The pitcher is
                                           throwing the phone straight ahead
                                           with respect to the screen's top, so
                                           the device isn't accelerating side to
                                           side.
                Acceleration.Y             Returns the acceleration of the         8.2, while the pitcher throws the
                                           device front to back. The pitcher       device.
                                           initially gives the device a large
                                           acceleration when throwing the          0, while the device is in the air.
                                           device, going from 0 to 90 miles per
                                           hour (132 feet per second) in half a    -8.2, as the catcher catches the
                                           second. After the device is in the air, device.
                                           ignoring air friction, the device
                                           doesn't accelerate further. The
                                           device decelerates when the catcher
                                           catches it, bringing it to a stop.
                Acceleration.Z             Returns the acceleration of the         0, before the pitcher throws the
                                           device top to bottom. While in the      device.
                                           air, the device experiences the
                                           effects of gravity.                     1, while the device is in the air.
                                                                                   0, after the catcher catches the
                                                                                   device.
                Acceleration               Returns the acceleration as a record.   { X: 0, Y: 264, Z: 0 } as the pitcher
                                                                                   throws the device.
                Connection.Connected       Returns a Boolean value that            true
                                           indicates whether the device is
                                           connected to a network
                Connection.Metered         Returns a Boolean value that            true
                                           indicates whether the connection is
                                           metered
                Connection.Sync            Returns an enum value that              ConnectionSync.Connected
                                           indicates current sync state.
                App.ActiveScreen =         Returns a Boolean value that            true
                PlayBall                   indicates whether PlayBall is
               Formula                   Description                            Result
                                         displayed.
               App.ActiveScreen.Fill     Returns the background color for       Color.Green
                                         the displayed screen.
             Acos, Acot, Asin, Atan, Atan2, Cos, Cot,
             Degrees, Pi, Radians, Sin, and Tan
             functions
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Desktop flows       Model-driven apps        Power
             Pages       Power Platform CLI
             Calculates trigonometric values.
             Description
             Primary functions
             The Cos function returns the cosine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Cot function returns the cotangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Sin function returns the sine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Tan function returns the tangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             Inverse functions
             The Acos function returns the arccosine, or inverse cosine, of its argument. The
             arccosine is the angle whose cosine is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Acot function returns the principal value of the arccotangent, or inverse cotangent,
             of its argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Asin function returns the arcsine, or inverse sine, of its argument. The arcsine is the
             angle whose sine is the argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range
             -π/2 to π/2.
             The Atan function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of its argument. The
             arctangent is the angle whose tangent is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range -π/2 to π/2.
       The Atan2 function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of the specified x and y
       coordinates as arguments. The arctangent is the angle from the x-axis to a line that
       contains the origin (0, 0) and a point with coordinates (x, y). The angle is given in radians
       between -π and π, excluding -π. A positive result represents a counterclockwise angle
       from the x-axis; a negative result represents a clockwise angle. Atan2( a, b ) equals
       Atan( b/a ), except that a can equal 0 (zero) with the Atan2 function.
       Helper functions
       The Degrees function converts radians to degrees. π radians equals 180 degrees.
       The Pi function returns the transcendental number π, which begins 3.141592...
       The Radians function converts degrees to radians.
       Notes
       If you pass a single number to these functions, the return value is a single result. If you
       pass a single-column table that contains numbers, the return value is a single-column
       table of results with a Value column, one result for each record in the argument's table.
       If you have a multi-column table, you can shape it into a single-column table, as
       working with tables describes.
       If an argument would result in an undefined value, the result is blank. This can happen,
       for example, when using inverse functions with arguments that are out of range.
       Syntax
       Primary Functions
       Cos( Radians )
       Cot( Radians )
       Sin( Radians )
       Tan( Radians )
          Radians - Required. Angle to operate on.
       Cos( SingleColumnTable )
       Cot( SingleColumnTable )
       Sin( SingleColumnTable )
       Tan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of angles to operate on.
        Inverse Functions
        Acos( Number )
        Acot( Number )
        Asin( Number )
        Atan( Number )
            Number - Required. Number to operate on.
        Acos( SingleColumnTable )
        Acot( SingleColumnTable )
        Asin( SingleColumnTable )
        Atan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of numbers to operate on.
        Atan2( X, Y )
            X - Required. X-axis coordinate.
            Y - Required. Y-axis coordinate.
        Helper Functions
        Degrees( Radians )
            Radians - Required. Angle in radians to convert to degrees.
        Pi()
        Radians( Degrees )
            Degrees - Required. Angle in degrees to convert to radians.
        Examples
        Single number
                                                       ﾉ
                                                         Expand table
                Formula               Description                                                      Result
                Cos( 1.047197 )       Returns the cosine of 1.047197 radians or 60 degrees.            0.5
                Cot( Pi()/4 )         Returns the cotangent of 0.785398... radians or 45 degrees.      1
                Sin( Pi()/2 )         Returns the sine of 1.570796... radians or 90 degrees.           1
                Tan( Radians(60) )    Returns the tangent of 1.047197... radians or 60 degrees.        1.732050...
                Acos( 0.5 )           Returns the arccosine of 0.5, in radians.                        1.047197...
                Acot( 1 )             Returns the arccotangent of 1, in radians.                       0.785398...
                Asin( 1 )             Returns the arcsine of 1, in radians.                            1.570796...
                Atan( 1.732050 )      Returns the arctangent of 1.732050, in radians.                  1.047197...
                Atan2( 5, 3 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.540419...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (5,3), which is
                                      approximately 31 degrees.
                Atan2( 4, 4 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.785398...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (4,4), which is
                                      exactly π/4 radians or 45 degrees.
                Degrees( 1.047197 )   Returns the equivalent number of degrees for 1.047197            60
                                      radians.
                Pi()                  Returns the transcendental number π.                             3.141592...
                Radians( 15 )         Returns the equivalent number of radians for 15 degrees.         0.261799...
              Single-column table
              The examples in this section use a data source that's named ValueTable and that
              contains the following data. The last record in the table is π/2 radians or 90 degrees.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
                Value
                0.5
                -2
                1.570796...
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
               Formula                  Description                       Result
               Cos( ValueTable )        Returns the cosine of each        A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.877582..., -0.416146..., 0
               Cot( ValueTable )        Returns the cotangent of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.830487..., 0.457657..., 0
               Sin( ValueTable )        Returns the sine of each          A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.479425, -0.909297..., 1
               Tan( ValueTable )        Returns the tangent of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.546302..., 2.185039...,
                                                                          3060023.306952...
               Acos( ValueTable )       Returns the arccosine of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.047197..., Blank(), Blank()
               Acot( ValueTable )       Returns the arccotangent of       A single-column table with a Value
                                        each number in the table.         column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.107138..., 2.677945...,
                                                                          0.566911...
               Asin( ValueTable )       Returns the arcsine of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.523598..., Blank(), Blank()
               Atan( ValueTable )       Returns the arctangent of each    A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.463647..., -1.107148...,
                                                                          1.00388...
               Degrees( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of degrees for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 28.647889..., -114.591559..., 90
                                        in radians.
               Radians( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of radians for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 0.008726..., -0.034906...,
                                        in degrees.                       0.027415...
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
             Acos, Acot, Asin, Atan, Atan2, Cos, Cot,
             Degrees, Pi, Radians, Sin, and Tan
             functions
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Desktop flows       Model-driven apps        Power
             Pages       Power Platform CLI
             Calculates trigonometric values.
             Description
             Primary functions
             The Cos function returns the cosine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Cot function returns the cotangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Sin function returns the sine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Tan function returns the tangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             Inverse functions
             The Acos function returns the arccosine, or inverse cosine, of its argument. The
             arccosine is the angle whose cosine is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Acot function returns the principal value of the arccotangent, or inverse cotangent,
             of its argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Asin function returns the arcsine, or inverse sine, of its argument. The arcsine is the
             angle whose sine is the argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range
             -π/2 to π/2.
             The Atan function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of its argument. The
             arctangent is the angle whose tangent is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range -π/2 to π/2.
       The Atan2 function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of the specified x and y
       coordinates as arguments. The arctangent is the angle from the x-axis to a line that
       contains the origin (0, 0) and a point with coordinates (x, y). The angle is given in radians
       between -π and π, excluding -π. A positive result represents a counterclockwise angle
       from the x-axis; a negative result represents a clockwise angle. Atan2( a, b ) equals
       Atan( b/a ), except that a can equal 0 (zero) with the Atan2 function.
       Helper functions
       The Degrees function converts radians to degrees. π radians equals 180 degrees.
       The Pi function returns the transcendental number π, which begins 3.141592...
       The Radians function converts degrees to radians.
       Notes
       If you pass a single number to these functions, the return value is a single result. If you
       pass a single-column table that contains numbers, the return value is a single-column
       table of results with a Value column, one result for each record in the argument's table.
       If you have a multi-column table, you can shape it into a single-column table, as
       working with tables describes.
       If an argument would result in an undefined value, the result is blank. This can happen,
       for example, when using inverse functions with arguments that are out of range.
       Syntax
       Primary Functions
       Cos( Radians )
       Cot( Radians )
       Sin( Radians )
       Tan( Radians )
          Radians - Required. Angle to operate on.
       Cos( SingleColumnTable )
       Cot( SingleColumnTable )
       Sin( SingleColumnTable )
       Tan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of angles to operate on.
        Inverse Functions
        Acos( Number )
        Acot( Number )
        Asin( Number )
        Atan( Number )
            Number - Required. Number to operate on.
        Acos( SingleColumnTable )
        Acot( SingleColumnTable )
        Asin( SingleColumnTable )
        Atan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of numbers to operate on.
        Atan2( X, Y )
            X - Required. X-axis coordinate.
            Y - Required. Y-axis coordinate.
        Helper Functions
        Degrees( Radians )
            Radians - Required. Angle in radians to convert to degrees.
        Pi()
        Radians( Degrees )
            Degrees - Required. Angle in degrees to convert to radians.
        Examples
        Single number
                                                       ﾉ
                                                         Expand table
                Formula               Description                                                      Result
                Cos( 1.047197 )       Returns the cosine of 1.047197 radians or 60 degrees.            0.5
                Cot( Pi()/4 )         Returns the cotangent of 0.785398... radians or 45 degrees.      1
                Sin( Pi()/2 )         Returns the sine of 1.570796... radians or 90 degrees.           1
                Tan( Radians(60) )    Returns the tangent of 1.047197... radians or 60 degrees.        1.732050...
                Acos( 0.5 )           Returns the arccosine of 0.5, in radians.                        1.047197...
                Acot( 1 )             Returns the arccotangent of 1, in radians.                       0.785398...
                Asin( 1 )             Returns the arcsine of 1, in radians.                            1.570796...
                Atan( 1.732050 )      Returns the arctangent of 1.732050, in radians.                  1.047197...
                Atan2( 5, 3 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.540419...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (5,3), which is
                                      approximately 31 degrees.
                Atan2( 4, 4 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.785398...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (4,4), which is
                                      exactly π/4 radians or 45 degrees.
                Degrees( 1.047197 )   Returns the equivalent number of degrees for 1.047197            60
                                      radians.
                Pi()                  Returns the transcendental number π.                             3.141592...
                Radians( 15 )         Returns the equivalent number of radians for 15 degrees.         0.261799...
              Single-column table
              The examples in this section use a data source that's named ValueTable and that
              contains the following data. The last record in the table is π/2 radians or 90 degrees.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
                Value
                0.5
                -2
                1.570796...
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
               Formula                  Description                       Result
               Cos( ValueTable )        Returns the cosine of each        A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.877582..., -0.416146..., 0
               Cot( ValueTable )        Returns the cotangent of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.830487..., 0.457657..., 0
               Sin( ValueTable )        Returns the sine of each          A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.479425, -0.909297..., 1
               Tan( ValueTable )        Returns the tangent of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.546302..., 2.185039...,
                                                                          3060023.306952...
               Acos( ValueTable )       Returns the arccosine of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.047197..., Blank(), Blank()
               Acot( ValueTable )       Returns the arccotangent of       A single-column table with a Value
                                        each number in the table.         column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.107138..., 2.677945...,
                                                                          0.566911...
               Asin( ValueTable )       Returns the arcsine of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.523598..., Blank(), Blank()
               Atan( ValueTable )       Returns the arctangent of each    A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.463647..., -1.107148...,
                                                                          1.00388...
               Degrees( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of degrees for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 28.647889..., -114.591559..., 90
                                        in radians.
               Radians( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of radians for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 0.008726..., -0.034906...,
                                        in degrees.                       0.027415...
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
          AddColumns, DropColumns,
          RenameColumns, and ShowColumns
          functions
          06/21/2025
          Applies to:      Canvas apps      Cards      Copilot Studio     Desktop flows      Model-driven
          apps     Power Platform CLI       Dataverse functions
          Shapes a table or record by adding, dropping, renaming, and selecting its columns.
          The ForAll function can also be used to shape a table, by returning a table of new records
          created from existing columns.
          Overview
          These functions shape a table or record by adjusting its columns:
               Reduce a table or record that contains multiple columns down to a single column for use
               with single-column functions, such as Lower or Sqrt.
               Add a calculated column to a table or record (for example, a Total Price column that
               shows the results of multiplying Quantity by Unit Price).
               Rename a column to something more meaningful, for display to users or for use in
               formulas.
          A table is a value in Power Apps, just like a string or a number. You can specify a table as an
          argument in a formula, and functions can return a table as a result.
            ７ Note
            The functions that this topic describes don't modify the original table. Instead, they take
            that table as an argument and return a new table with a transform applied. For more
            information, see working with tables.
          You can't modify the columns of a data source by using these functions. You must modify the
          data at its source. You can add columns to a collection with the Collect function. For more
          information, see working with data sources.
          Description
     The AddColumns function adds a column to a table or record, and a formula defines the values
     in that column. Existing columns remain unmodified.
     The formula is evaluated for the provided record, or for each record of the provided table.
     Fields of the record currently being processed are available within the formula. Use the
     ThisRecord operator or simply reference fields by name as you would any other value. The As
     operator can also be used to name the record being processed which can help make your
     formula easier to understand and make nested records accessible. For more information, see
     the examples below and working with record scope.
     The DropColumns function excludes columns from a table or record. All other columns remain
     unmodified. DropColumns excludes columns, and ShowColumns includes columns.
     Use the RenameColumns function to rename one or more columns of a table or record by
     providing at least one argument pair that specifies the name of a column that the table or
     record contains (the old name, which you want to replace) and the name of a column that the
     table or record doesn't contain (the new name, which you want to use). The old name must
     already exist in the table or record, and the new name must not exist. Each column name may
     appear only once in the argument list as either an old column name or a new column name. To
     rename a column to an existing column name, first drop the existing column with
     DropColumns, or rename the existing column out of the way by nesting one RenameColumns
     function within another.
     The ShowColumns function includes columns of a table or record and drops all other columns.
     You can use ShowColumns to create a single-column table or record from a multi-column
     table or record. ShowColumns includes columns, and DropColumns excludes columns.
     For all these functions, the result is a new table or record with the transform applied. The
     original table or record isn't modified. You can't modify an existing table or record with a
     formula. SharePoint, Microsoft Dataverse, SQL Server, and other data sources provide tools for
     modifying the columns of lists and tables, which are often referred to as the schema. The
     functions in this topic only transform an input table or record, without modifying the original,
     into an output table or record for further use.
     The arguments to these functions support delegation. For example, a Filter function used as an
     argument to pull in related records searches through all listings, even if the '[dbo].[AllListings]'
     data source contains a million rows:
       Power Fx
       AddColumns( RealEstateAgents,
          Listings,
         Filter(  '[dbo].[AllListings]', ListingAgentName = AgentName )
      )
     However, the output of these functions is subject to the non-delegation record limit. In this
     example, only 500 records are returned even if the RealEstateAgents data source has 501 or
     more records.
     If you use AddColumns in this manner, Filter must make separate calls to the data source for
     each of those first records in RealEstateAgents, which causes lots of network chatter. If [dbo](.
     [AllListings] is small enough and doesn't change often. You can call the Collect function in
     OnStart to cache the data source in your app when it starts. As an alternative, you could
     restructure your app so that you pull in the related records only when the user asks for them.
      ７ Note
      In Power Apps prior to version 3.24042, column names were specified with a text string
      using double quotes, and if connected to a data source they also needed to be logical
      names. For example, the logical name "cr43e_name" with double quotes was used instead
      of the display name Name without quotes. For SharePoint and Excel data sources that
      contain column names with spaces, each space was specified with "_x0020_", for example
      "Column Name" as "Column_x0020_Name". After this version, all apps were automatically
      updated to the new syntax described in this article.
     Syntax
     AddColumns( TableOrRecord, ColumnName1, Formula1 [, ColumnName2, Formula2, ... ] )
        TableOrRecord - Required. Table or record to operate on.
        ColumnName(s) - Required. Names of the columns to add.
        Formula(s) - Required. Formulas to evaluate for each record. The result is added as the
        value of the corresponding new column. You can reference other columns of the table or
        record in this formula.
     DropColumns( TableOrRecord, ColumnName1 [, ColumnName2, ... ] )
        TableOrRecord - Required. Table or record to operate on.
        ColumnName(s) - Required. Names of the columns to drop.
     RenameColumns( TableOrRecord, OldColumnName1, NewColumnName1 [, OldColumnName2,
     NewColumnName2, ... ] )
        TableOrRecord - Required. Table or record to operate on.
              OldColumnName(s) - Required. Names of the columns to rename from the original table
              or record. This element appears first in the argument pair (or first in each argument pair if
              the formula includes more than one pair).
              NewColumnName(s) - Required. Replacement names. This element appears last in the
              argument pair (or last in each argument pair if the formula includes more than one pair).
         ShowColumns( TableOrRecord, ColumnName1 [, ColumnName2, ... ] )
              TableOrRecord - Required. Table or record to operate on.
              ColumnName(s) - Required. Names of the columns to include.
         Examples
         The examples in this section use the IceCreamSales data source, which contains the data in this
         table:
         None of these examples modify the IceCreamSales data source. Each function transforms the
         value of the data source as a table and returns that value as the result.
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
          Formula                        Description                                 Result
          AddColumns( IceCreamSales,     Adds a Revenue column to the result. For each
          Revenue, UnitPrice *           record, UnitPrice * QuantitySold is evaluated,
          QuantitySold )                 and the result is placed in the new column.
          DropColumns( IceCreamSales,    Excludes the UnitPrice column from the result.
          UnitPrice )                    Use this function to exclude columns, and use
                                         ShowColumns to include them.
          ShowColumns( IceCreamSales,    Includes only the Flavor column in the result.
          Flavor )                       Use this function include columns, and use
                                         DropColumns to exclude them.
          RenameColumns(                 Renames the UnitPrice column in the result.
          IceCreamSales, UnitPrice, Price)
            Formula                            Description                                       Result
            RenameColumns(                     Renames the UnitPrice and QuantitySold
            IceCreamSales, UnitPrice, Price,   columns in the result.
            QuantitySold, Number)
            DropColumns(                       Performs the following table transforms in
            RenameColumns(                     order, starting from the inside of the formula:
            AddColumns( IceCreamSales,
                                                   1. Adds a Revenue column based on the
            Revenue,
                                                     per record calculation of UnitPrice *
            UnitPrice * QuantitySold ),
                                                     Quantity.
            UnitPrice, Price ),
                                                   2. Renames UnitPrice to Price.
            Quantity )
                                                   3. Excludes the Quantity column.
                                               Order is important, for example we can't
                                               calculate with UnitPrice after it's renamed.
          Step by step
          Let's try some of the examples from earlier in this article.
              1. Create a collection by adding a Button control and setting its OnSelect property to this
                 formula:
                   Power Fx
                    ClearCollect( IceCreamSales,
                       Table(
                           { Flavor: "Strawberry", UnitPrice: 1.99, QuantitySold: 20 },
                           { Flavor: "Chocolate", UnitPrice: 2.99, QuantitySold: 45 },
                           { Flavor: "Vanilla", UnitPrice: 1.50, QuantitySold: 35 }
                       )
                    )
              2. Run the formula by selecting the button while holding down the Alt key.
              3. Add a second Button control, set its OnSelect property to this formula, and then run it:
                   Power Fx
                    ClearCollect( FirstExample,
                       AddColumns( IceCreamSales, Revenue, UnitPrice * QuantitySold )
                    )
              4. On the File menu, select Collections, and then select IceCreamSales to show that
                 collection.
       As this graphic shows, the second formula didn't modify this collection. The AddColumns
       function used IceCreamSales as a read-only argument; the function didn't modify the
       table to which that argument refers.
      5. Select FirstExample.
       As this graphic shows, the second formula returned a new table with the added column.
       The ClearCollect function captured the new table in the FirstExample collection, adding
       something to the original table as it flowed through the function without modifying the
       source:
      Map columns in a component
      See Map columns.
             And, Or, and Not functions
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Dataverse formula columns         Desktop flows 
             Model-driven apps        Power Pages        Power Platform CLI
             Boolean logic functions, commonly used to manipulate the results of comparisons and
             tests.
             Description
             The And function returns true if all of its arguments are true.
             The Or function returns true if any of its arguments are true.
             The Not function returns true if its argument is false; it returns false if its argument is
             true.
             These functions work the same way as they do in Excel. You can also use operators to
             perform these same operations, using either Visual Basic or JavaScript syntax:
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Function notation      Visual Basic operator notation     JavaScript operator notation
              And( x, y )            x And y                            x && y
              Or( x, y )             x Or y                             x || y
              Not( x )               Not x                              ! x
             These functions work with logical values. You can't pass them a number or a string
             directly; instead, you must make a comparison or a test. For example, this logical
             formula x > 1 evaluates to the Boolean value true if x is greater than 1. If x is less than 1,
             the formula evaluates to false.
             Syntax
             And( LogicalFormula1, LogicalFormula2 [, LogicalFormula3, ... ] )
             Or( LogicalFormula1, LogicalFormula2 [, LogicalFormula3, ... ] )
             Not( LogicalFormula )
                   LogicalFormula(s) - Required. Logical formulas to evaluate and operate on.
               Examples
               The examples in this section use these global variables:
                     a = false
                     b = true
                     x = 10
                     y = 100
                     s = "Hello World"
               To create these global variables in an app, insert a Button control, and set its OnSelect
               property to this formula:
                  Power Apps
                  Set( a, false ); Set( b, true ); Set( x, 10 ); Set( y, 100 ); Set( s, "Hello 
                  World" )
               Select the button (by clicking it while you hold down the Alt key), and then set the Text
               property of a Label control to a formula in the first column of the next table.
                                                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
                Formula                     Description                                                        Result
                And( a, b )                 Tests the values of a and b. One of the arguments is false, so     false
                                            the function returns false.
                a And b                     Same as the previous example, using Visual Basic notation.         false
                a && b                      Same as the previous example, using JavaScript notation.           false
                Or( a, b )                  Tests the values of a and b. One of the arguments is true, so      true
                                            the function returns true.
                a Or b                      Same as the previous example, using Visual Basic notation.         true
                a || b                      Same as the previous example, using JavaScript notation.           true
                Not( a )                    Tests the value of a. The argument is false, so the function       true
                                            returns the opposite result.
                Not a                       Same as the previous example, using Visual Basic notation.         true
                ! a                         Same as the previous example, using JavaScript notation.           true
                Len( s ) < 20               Tests whether the length of s is less than 20 and whether it       true
                And Not IsBlank( s )        isn't a blank value. The length is less than 20, and the value
                 Formula                      Description                                                          Result
                                              isn't blank. Therefore, the result is true.
                 Or( Len( s ) < 10,           Tests whether the length of s is less than 10, whether x is less     true
                 x < 100, y < 100 )           than 100, and whether y is less than 100. The first and third
                                              arguments are false, but the second one is true. Therefore, the
                                              function returns true.
                 Not IsBlank( s )             Tests whether s is blank, which returns false. Not returns the       true
                                              opposite of this result, which is true.
               Feedback
               Was this page helpful?      Yes        No
               Provide product feedback
        App object in Power Apps
        Applies to:      Canvas apps
        Get information about the currently running app and control the app's behavior.
        Description
        Like a control, the App object has properties that identify which screen is showing and prompt
        you to save changes so you don't lose them. Every app has an App object.
        Write formulas for some properties of the App object. At the top of the Tree view pane, select
        the App object as you would any other control or screen. To view or edit one of the object's
        properties, select it in the drop-down list to the left of the formula bar.
        This article covers the following App object properties:
              ActiveScreen – the screen that's currently displayed.
              BackEnabled – how the app responds to the device back gesture.
        ConfirmExit and ConfirmExitMessage – warn the user before closing the app.
        Connection string – set up Application Insights logging.
        Formulas – define named formulas, user defined functions, and user defined types.
        OnError – handle errors globally.
        OnStart – run logic when the app starts.
        StartScreen – set the screen shown first when the app loads.
        StudioVersion – return the Power Apps Studio version that published the app.
     ActiveScreen property
     The ActiveScreen property identifies the screen that's currently displayed.
     This property returns a screen object. Use it to reference properties of the current screen, such as
     the name with the formula App.ActiveScreen.Name. You can also compare this property to
     another screen object, like with the comparison formula App.ActiveScreen = Screen2 to check if
     Screen2 is the current screen.
     Use the Back or Navigate function to switch the screen that's displayed.
     BackEnabled property
     The BackEnabled property changes how the app responds to the device back gesture (swipe or
     use the hardware back button on Android devices, or swipe from the left on iOS devices) when
     running in Power Apps mobile. When enabled, the device back gesture goes back to the screen
     that was most recently shown, which is similar to the Back formula. When disabled, the device
     back gesture takes the user to the app list.
     ConfirmExit properties
     Nobody wants to lose unsaved changes. Use the ConfirmExit and ConfirmExitMessage
     properties to warn the user before closing your app.
      ７ Note
         ConfirmExit doesn't work in apps embedded in, for example, Power BI and SharePoint.
         ConfirmExit isn't supported in custom pages.
         Now, these properties can reference controls only on the first screen if the Delayed
         load preview feature is enabled (which it is by default for new apps). If you reference
         other screens, Power Apps Studio doesn't show an error, but the published app doesn't
         open in Power Apps Mobile or a browser. Microsoft is working to lift this limitation. In
         the meantime, turn off Delayed load in Settings > Upcoming features (under
         Preview).
     ConfirmExit
     ConfirmExit is a Boolean property that, when true, opens a confirmation dialog box before the
     app closes. By default, this property is false, and no dialog box appears.
     When the user might have unsaved changes in the app, use this property to show a confirmation
     dialog box before exiting the app. Use a formula that checks variables and control properties (for
     example, the Unsaved property of the Edit form control).
     The confirmation dialog box appears in any situation where data can be lost, such as:
        Run the Exit function.
        If the app runs in a browser:
          Close the browser or the browser tab where the app runs.
          Select the browser's back button.
          Run the Launch function with a LaunchTarget of Self.
        If the app runs in Power Apps Mobile (iOS or Android):
          Swipe to switch to a different app in Power Apps Mobile.
          Select the back button on an Android device.
          Run the Launch function to launch another canvas app.
     The exact look of the confirmation dialog box can vary across devices and versions of Power
     Apps.
     The confirmation dialog box doesn't show in Power Apps Studio.
     ConfirmExitMessage
     By default, the confirmation dialog box shows a generic message, such as "You may have
     unsaved changes." in the user's language.
     Use ConfirmExitMessage to provide a custom message in the confirmation dialog box. If this
     property is blank, the default value is used. Custom messages are truncated as needed to fit
     within the confirmation dialog box, so keep the message to a few lines at most.
     In a browser, the confirmation dialog box can show a generic message from the browser.
     Example
      1. Set the App object's ConfirmExit property to this expression:
         Power Fx
         AccountForm.Unsaved Or ContactForm.Unsaved
        The dialog box appears if the user changes data in either form and then tries to close the
        app without saving those changes.
      2. Set the App object's ConfirmExitMessage property to this formula:
         Power Fx
         If( AccountForm.Unsaved,
             "Accounts form has unsaved changes.",
             "Contacts form has unsaved changes."
         )
        The dialog box shows a form-specific message when the user changes data in either form
        and then tries to close the app without saving those changes.
     Connection string property
     Use the Connection string property to export system-generated application logs to Application
     Insights.
     To set the connection string:
      1. Open your app for editing in Power Apps Studio.
      2. Select the App object in the left navigation tree view.
      3. Enter the Connection string in the properties pane.
     If data isn't sent to Application Insights, contact your Power Platform admin and check whether
     Application Insights is disabled at the tenant level.
     Formulas property
     Use the Formulas property to define reusable logic across your app. The Formulas property
     supports three constructs:
        Named formulas – assign a name to a formula and reuse the value throughout the app.
        User defined functions – named formulas that take parameters and return a value.
        User defined types – named types you can reuse in formulas and function signatures.
     Named formulas
     Use named formulas in the Formulas property to define a formula that you can reuse throughout
     your app.
     In Power Apps, formulas determine the value of control properties. For example, to set the
     background color consistently across an app, set the Fill property for each control to a common
     formula:
      Power Fx
      Label1.Fill: ColorValue( Param( "BackgroundColor" ) )
      Label2.Fill: ColorValue( Param( "BackgroundColor" ) )
      Label3.Fill: ColorValue( Param( "BackgroundColor" ) )
     With so many places where this formula appears, it becomes tedious and error prone to update
     them all if a change is needed. Instead, create a global variable in OnStart to set the color once,
     and then reuse the value throughout the app:
      Power Fx
      App.OnStart: Set( BGColor, ColorValue( Param( "BackgroundColor" ) ) )
      Label1.Fill: BGColor
      Label2.Fill: BGColor
      Label3.Fill: BGColor
    While this method is better, it also depends on OnStart running before the value for BGColor is
    established. BGColor might also be manipulated in some corner of the app that the maker is
    unaware of, a change made by someone else, and that can be hard to track down.
    Named formulas provide an alternative. Just as you commonly write control-property =
    expression, you can instead write name = expression and then reuse name throughout your app
    to replace expression. Define these formulas in the Formulas property:
     Power Fx
     App.Formulas: BGColor = ColorValue( Param( "BackgroundColor" ) );
     Label1.Fill: BGColor
     Label2.Fill: BGColor
     Label3.Fill: BGColor
    The advantages of using named formulas include:
       The formula's value is always available. There's no timing dependency, no OnStart that
       must run first before the value is set, no time in which the formula's value is incorrect.
       Named formulas can refer to each other in any order, so long as they don't create a circular
       reference. They can be calculated in parallel.
       The formula's value is always up to date. The formula can perform a calculation that is
       dependent on control properties or database records, and as they change, the formula's
       value automatically updates. You don't need to manually update the value as you do with a
       variable. And formulas only recalculate when needed.
       The formula's definition is immutable. The definition in Formulas is the single source of
       truth and the value can't be changed somewhere else in the app. With variables, some code
       might unexpectedly change a value, but this hard-to-debug situation isn't possible with
       named formulas.
       The formula's calculation can be deferred. Because its value is immutable, it can always be
       calculated when needed, which means it need not be calculated until it's needed. Formula
       values that aren't used until screen2 of an app is displayed need not be calculated until
       screen2 is visible. Deferring this work can improve app load time. Named formulas are
       declarative and provide opportunities for the system to optimize how and when they're
       computed.
       Named formulas is an Excel concept. Power Fx uses Excel concepts where possible since so
       many people know Excel well. Named formulas are the equivalent of named cells and
       named formulas in Excel, managed with the Name Manager. They recalculate automatically
       like cells of a spreadsheet and control properties do.
     Define named formulas one after another in the Formulas property, each ending with a
     semicolon. The type of the formula is inferred from the types of the elements within the formula
     and how they're used together. For example, these named formulas retrieve useful information
     about the current user from Dataverse:
      Power Fx
      UserEmail = User().Email;
      UserInfo = LookUp( Users, 'Primary Email' = User().Email );
      UserTitle = UserInfo.Title;
      UserPhone = Switch( UserInfo.'Preferred Phone', 
                          'Preferred Phone (Users)'.'Mobile Phone', UserInfo.'Mobile Phone',
                          UserInfo.'Main Phone' );
     If the formula for UserTitle needs to be updated, you can easily update it in this one location. If
     UserPhone isn't needed in the app, then these calls to the Users table in Dataverse aren't made.
     There's no penalty for including a formula definition that isn't used.
     Some limitations of named formulas:
        They can't use behavior functions or otherwise cause side effects within the app.
        They can't create a circular reference. Having a = b; and b = a; in the same app isn't
        allowed.
     User-defined functions
     Power Fx includes a long list of built-in functions, such as If, Text, and Set. By using user-defined
     functions, you can write your own functions that take parameters and return a value, just like the
     built-in functions. Think of user-defined functions as an extension to named formulas that adds
     parameters and supports behavior formulas.
     For example, you might define a named formula that returns fiction books from a library:
      Power Apps
      Library = [ { Title: "The Hobbit", Author: "J. R. R. Tolkien", Genre: "Fiction" },
                  { Title: "Oxford English Dictionary", Author: "Oxford University", Genre: 
      "Reference" } ];
      LibraryFiction = Filter( Library, Genre = "Fiction" );
     Without parameters, you need to define separate named formulas for each genre. But instead,
     parameterize your named formula:
     Power Apps
     LibraryType := Type( [ { Title: Text, Author: Text, Genre: Text } ] );
     LibraryGenre( SelectedGenre: Text ): LibraryType = Filter( Library, Genre = 
     SelectedGenre );
    Now you can call LibraryGenre( "Fiction" ), LibraryGenre( "Reference" ), or filter on other
    genres by using a single user-defined function.
    The syntax is:
    FunctionName( [ ParameterName1: ParameterType1 [ , ParameterName2: ParameterType2 ... ] ] ) :
    ReturnType = Formula;
       FunctionName – Required. The name of the user-defined function.
       ParameterName(s) – Optional. The name of a function parameter.
       ParameterType(s) – Optional. The name of a type, either a built-in data type name, a data
       source name, or a type defined by using the Type function.
       ReturnType – Required. The type of the return value from the function.
       Formula – Required. The formula that calculates the value of the function based on the
       parameters.
    You must type each parameter and the output from the user-defined function. In this example,
     SelectedGenre: Text defines the first parameter to the function to be of type Text and
     SelectedGenre is the name of the parameter that is used in the body for the Filter operation. See
    Data types for the supported type names. The Type function is used to create an aggregate type
    for the library, so that you can return a table of books from the function.
    You define LibraryType as a plural table of records type. If you want to pass a single book to a
    function, you can extract the type of the record for this table by using the RecordOf function:
     Power Apps
     BookType := Type( RecordOf( LibraryType ) );
     IsGenre( Book: BookType, SelectedGenre: Text ): Boolean = (Book.Genre = 
     SelectedGenre);
    Record matching for function parameters is tighter than it is in other parts of Power Fx. The fields
    of a record value must be a proper subset of the type definition and can't include extra fields. For
    example, IsGenre( { Title: "My Book", Published: 2001 }, "Fiction" ) results in an error.
     Recursion isn't yet supported by user-defined functions.
     Behavior user defined functions
     Named formulas and most user defined functions don't support behavior functions with side
     effects, such as Set or Notify. In general, avoid updating state if you can. Instead, rely on
     functional programming patterns and allow Power Fx to recalculate formulas as needed
     automatically. But, there are cases where it's unavoidable. To include behavior logic in a user
     defined function, wrap the body in curly braces:
       Power Apps
       Spend( Amount: Number ) : Void = {
           If( Amount > Savings, 
               Error( $"{Amount} is more than available savings" ),
               Set( Savings, Savings - Amount );
               Set( Spent, Spent + Amount) 
           );
       }
     Now you can call Spend( 12 ) to check if you have 12 in your Savings, and if so, debit it by 12
     and add 12 to the Spent variable. The return type of this function is Void as it doesn't return a
     value.
     The syntax of a behavior user defined function is:
     FunctionName( [ ParameterName1: ParameterType1 [ , ParameterName2: ParameterType2 ... ] ] ) :
     ReturnType = { Formula1 [ ; Formula2 ... ] };
         FunctionName – Required. The name of the user-defined function.
         ParameterName(s) – Optional. The name of a function parameter.
         ParameterType(s) – Optional. The name of a type, either a built-in data type name, a data
         source name, or a type defined with the Type function.
         ReturnType – Required. The type of the return value from the function. Use Void if the
         function doesn't return a value.
         Formula(s) – Required. The formula that calculates the value of the function based on the
         parameters.
     As with all Power Fx formulas, execution doesn't end when an error is encountered. After the
     Error function is called, the If function prevents the changes to Savings and Spent from
     happening. The IfError function can also be used to prevent further execution after an error. Even
     though it returns Void, the formula can still return an error if there's a problem.
     User defined types
     Use named formulas with the Type function to create user defined types. Use := instead of = to
     define a user defined type, for example Book := Type( { Title: Text, Author: Text } ). See the
     Type function for more information and examples.
     OnError property
     Use OnError to take action when an error happens anywhere in the app. It provides a global
     opportunity to intercept an error banner before it's displayed to the end user. You can also use it
     to log an error by using the Trace function or write to a database or web service.
     In Canvas apps, the result of every formula evaluation is checked for an error. If an error is
     encountered, OnError is evaluated with the same FirstError and AllErrors scope variables that the
     app uses if the entire formula is wrapped in an IfError function.
     If OnError is empty, a default error banner shows the FirstError.Message of the error. Defining an
     OnError formula overrides this behavior, so the maker can handle error reporting as needed. You
     can request the default behavior in OnError by rethrowing the error by using the Error function.
     Use the rethrowing approach if you want to filter out or handle some errors differently, but let
     others pass through.
     OnError can't replace an error in calculations the way that IfError can. If OnError is invoked, the
     error already happened and is already processed through formula calculations like IfError;
     OnError controls error reporting only.
     OnError formulas are evaluated concurrently and it's possible that their evaluation might overlap
     with the processing of other errors. For example, if you set a global variable at the top of an
     OnError and read it later on in the same formula, the value might have changed. Use the With
     function to create a named value that is local to the formula.
     Although OnError processes each error individually, the default error banner might not appear
     for each error individually. To avoid having too many error banners displayed at the same time,
     the same error banner isn't displayed again if it was recently shown.
     Example
     Consider a Label control and Slider control that are bound together through the formula:
      Power Fx
     Label1.Text = 1/Slider1.Value
    The slider defaults to 50. If you move the slider to 0, Label1 shows no value, and an error banner
    appears:
    Let's look at what happens in detail:
      1. You move the slider to the left and the Slider1.Value property changes to 0.
      2. Label1.Text automatically reevaluates. Division by zero occurs, generating an error.
      3. There's no IfError in this formula. The division by zero error is returned by the formula
       evaluation.
      4. Label1.Text can't show anything for this error, so it shows a blank state.
      5. OnError is invoked. Since there's no handler, the standard error banner is displayed with
       error information.
    If needed, you can also change the formula to Label1.Text = IfError( 1/Slider1.Value, 0 ).
    Using IfError means there's no error or error banner. You can't change the value of an error from
    OnError because the error already happened - OnError only controls how it's reported.
    If you add an OnError handler, it doesn't affect steps before step 5, but it does change how the
    error is reported:
     Power Fx
      Trace( $"Error {FirstError.Message} in {FirstError.Source}" )
     With this OnError handler, the app user doesn't see any error. But the error is added to the
     Monitor's trace, including the source of the error information from FirstError:
     If you also want to show the default error banner along with the trace, rethrow the error by using
     the Error function after the Trace call, as if the Trace wasn't there:
      Power Fx
      Trace( $"Error {FirstError.Message} in {FirstError.Source}" );
      Error( FirstError )
     OnStart property
      ７ Note
      Using the OnStart property can cause performance problems when loading an app.
      Consider these alternatives before adding logic to OnStart:
         To cache data or set up global variables, use a named formula in the Formulas
         property where possible.
         To set the first screen to show, use the StartScreen property instead of Navigate.
       To run logic when a specific screen is shown, use the screen's OnVisible property.
     Depending on your context, the OnStart property might be disabled by default. If you don't
     see it and need to use it, check the app's Advanced settings for a switch to enable it.
     When the nonblocking OnStart rule is enabled (the default), OnStart runs at the same time
     as other app rules. As a result:
       Variables initialized in OnStart might not be fully initialized when other app rules read
       them.
       A screen can render and become interactive before App.OnStart or Screen.OnVisible
       finishes running, especially if those functions take a long time.
    The OnStart property runs when the user starts the app. Use this property to:
      Retrieve and cache data in collections by using the Collect function.
      Set up global variables by using the Set function.
    This formula runs before the first screen appears. No screen is loaded, so you can't set context
    variables with the UpdateContext function. But you can pass context variables with the Navigate
    function.
    After you change the OnStart property, test it by hovering over the App object in the Tree view
    pane, selecting the ellipsis (...), and then selecting Run OnStart. Unlike when the app loads for the
    first time, existing collections and variables are already set. To start with empty collections, use
    the ClearCollect function instead of the Collect function.
      ７ Note
         Using the Navigate function in the OnStart property is retired. Existing apps still work.
         For a limited time, you can enable it in the app settings (under Retired). But using
         Navigate this way can cause app load delays because it forces the system to finish
         running OnStart before showing the first screen. Use the StartScreen property instead
         to set the first screen displayed.
         The retired switch is off for apps created before March 2021 where you added
         Navigate to OnStart between March 2021 and now. When you edit these apps in
         Power Apps Studio, you see an error. Turn the retired switch on to clear this error.
     StartScreen property
     The StartScreen property sets which screen shows first. Power Apps evaluates this property once
     when the app loads and returns the screen object to show. By default, this property is empty, and
     the first screen in the Studio Tree view shows first.
     StartScreen is a data flow property that can't contain behavior functions. All data flow functions
     are available. Use these functions and signals to decide which screen to show first:
        Param function to read parameters used to start the app.
        User function to read information about the current user.
        LookUp, Filter, CountRows, Max, and other functions that read from a data source.
        API calls through a connector. Make sure the call returns quickly.
        Signals such as Connection, Compass, and App.
      ７ Note
      Global variables and collections, including those created in OnStart, aren't available in
      StartScreen. Named formulas are available and are often a better alternative for formula
      reuse across the app.
     If StartScreen returns an error, the first screen in the Studio Tree view shows as if StartScreen isn't
     set. Use the IfError function to catch any errors and redirect to an error screen.
     After you change StartScreen in Studio, test it by hovering over the App object in the Tree view
     pane, selecting the ellipsis (...), and then selecting Navigate to StartScreen. The screen changes as
     if the app just loaded.
     Examples
      Power Fx
      Screen9
     Screen9 shows first whenever the app starts.
      Power Fx
      If( Param( "admin-mode" ) = 1, HomeScreen, AdminScreen )
     Checks if the Param "admin-mode" is set and uses it to decide if HomeScreen or AdminScreen
     shows first.
      Power Fx
      If( LookUp( Attendees, User = User().Email ).Staff, StaffPortal, HomeScreen )
     Checks if an attendee is a staff member and directs them to the correct screen on startup.
      Power Fx
      IfError( If( CustomConnector.APICall() = "Forest", 
                   ForestScreen, 
                   OceanScreen 
               ), 
               ErrorScreen 
      )
     Directs the app based on an API call to either ForestScreen or OceanScreen. If the API fails, the
     app uses ErrorScreen instead.
     StudioVersion property
     Use the StudioVersion property to show or log the version of Power Apps Studio used to publish
     an app. This property helps when you're debugging and checking that your app is republished
     with a recent version of Power Apps Studio.
     StudioVersion returns text. The format of this text can change over time, so treat it as a whole
     and don't extract individual parts.
      Last updated on 06/12/2026
             Operators and Identifiers in Power Apps
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps        Power Pages
             Some of these operators are dependent on the language of the author. For more
             information about language support in canvas apps, see Global apps.
                                                                                       ﾉ
                                                                                           Expand table
              Symbol        Type              Example                     Description
              '...'         Identifier        'Account Name'              Identifiers that contain special
                                                                          characters, including spaces, are
                                                                          enclosed in single quotes
              "..."         Text string       "Hello, World"              Text strings are enclosed in
                                                                          double quotes
              $"..."        String            $"Dear {FirstName},"        Formulas embedded within a
                            interpolation                                 text string
              .             Property          Slider1.Value               Extracts a property from a table,
                            Selector          Color.Red                   control, signal, or enumeration.
                                              Acceleration.X              For backward compatibility, !
                                                                          may also be used.
              .             Decimal           1.23                        Separator between whole and
              [language     separator                                     fractional parts of a number.
              dependent]                                                  The character depends on the
                                                                          language.
              ( )           Parentheses       Filter(T, A < 10)           Enforces precedence order, and
                                                                          groups subexpressions in a
                                              (1 + 2) * 3                 larger expression
              +             Arithmetic        1 + 2                       Addition
                            operators
              -                               2 - 1                       Subtraction and sign
              *                               2 * 3                       Multiplication
              /                               2 / 3                       Division (also see the Mod
                                                                          function)
              ^                               2 ^ 3                       Exponentiation, equivalent to
                                                                          the Power function
                Symbol         Type                Example                        Description
                %                                  20%                            Percentage (equivalent to "*
                                                                                  1/100")
                =              Comparison          Price = 100                    Equal to
                               operators
                >                                  Price > 100                    Greater than
                >=                                 Price >= 100                   Greater than or equal to
                <                                  Price < 100                    Less than
                <=                                 Price <= 100                   Less than or equal to
                <>                                 Price <> 100                   Not equal to
                &              String              "hello" & " " & "world"        Makes multiple strings appear
                               concatenation                                      continuous
                               operator
                && or And      Logical             Price < 100 &&                 Logical conjunction, equivalent
                               operators           Slider1.Value = 20             to the And function
                                                   or Price < 100 And
                                                   Slider1.Value = 20
                || or Or                           Price < 100 || Slider1.Value   Logical disjunction, equivalent
                                                   = 20 or Price < 100 Or         to the Or function
                                                   Slider1.Value = 20
                ! or Not                           !(Price < 100) or Not (Price   Logical negation, equivalent to
                                                   < 100)                         the Not function
                exactin        Membership          Gallery1.Selected exactin      Belonging to a collection or a
                               operators           SavedItems                     table
                exactin                            "Windows" exactin “To          Substring test (case-sensitive)
                                                   display windows in the
                                                   Windows operating
                                                   system...”
                in                                 Gallery1.Selected in           Belonging to a collection or a
                                                   SavedItems                     table
                in                                 "The" in "The keyboard         Substring test (case-insensitive)
                                                   and the monitor..."
                @              Disambiguation      MyTable[@fieldname]            Field disambiguation
                               operator
                @                                  [@MyVariable]                  Global disambiguation
                 Symbol          Type                Example                          Description
                 ,               List separator      If( X < 10, "Low", "Good" )      Separates:
                 [language                           { X: 12, Y: 32 }                       arguments in function
                 dependent]                          [ 1, 2, 3 ]                            calls
                                                                                            fields in a record
                                                                                            records in a table
                                                                                      This character depends on the
                                                                                      language.
                 ;               Formula             Collect(T, A); Navigate(S1,      Separate invocations of
                 [language       chaining            "")                              functions in behavior properties.
                 dependent]                                                           The chaining operator depends
                                                                                      on the language.
                 As              As operator         AllCustomers As Customer         Overrides ThisItem and
                                                                                      ThisRecord in galleries and
                                                                                      record scope functions. As is
                                                                                      useful for providing a better,
                                                                                      specific name and is especially
                                                                                      important in nested scenarios.
                 Self            Self operator       Self.Fill                        Access to properties of the
                                                                                      current control
                 Parent          Parent operator     Parent.Fill                      Access to properties of a
                                                                                      control container
                 ThisItem        ThisItem            ThisItem.FirstName               Access to fields of a Gallery or
                                 operator                                             form control
                 ThisRecord      ThisRecord          ThisRecord.FirstName             Access to the complete record
                                 operator                                             and individual fields of the
                                                                                      record within ForAll, Sum, With,
                                                                                      and other record scope
                                                                                      functions. Can be overridden
                                                                                      with the As operator.
                  ７ Note
                  The @ operator can also be used to validate the type of the record object against a
                  data source. For example, Collect(coll,Account@{'Account Number: 1111')
               in and exactin operators
               Use the in and exactin operators to find a string in a data source, such as a collection or
               an imported table. The in operator identifies matches regardless of case, and the exactin
               operator identifies matches only if they're capitalized the same way. Here's an example:
                  1. Create or import a collection named Inventory, and show it in a gallery, as the first
                     procedure in Show images and text in a gallery describes.
                  2. Set the Items property of the gallery to this formula:
                     Filter(Inventory, "E" in ProductName)
                     The gallery shows all products except Callisto because the name of that product is
                     the only one that doesn't contain the letter you specified.
                  3. Change the Items property of the gallery to this formula:
                     Filter(Inventory, "E" exactin ProductName)
                     The gallery shows only Europa because only its name contains the letter that you
                     specified in the case that you specified.
               ThisItem, ThisRecord, and As operators
               A few controls and functions apply formulas to individual records of a table. To refer to
               the individual record in a formula, use one of the following:
                                                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                                                       Expand table
                Operator      Applies to                        Description
                ThisItem      Gallery control                   The default name for the current record in a
                              Edit form control                 Gallery or form control.
                              Display form control
                ThisRecord    ForAll, Filter, With, Sum and     The default name for the current record in ForAll
                              other record scope functions      and other record scope functions.
                As name       Gallery control                   Defines a name for the current record, replacing
                              ForAll, Filter, With, Sum and     default ThisItem or ThisRecord. Use As to make
                              other record scope functions      formulas easier to understand and resolve
                                                                ambiguity when nesting.
               ThisItem operator
               For example, in the following Gallery control, the Items property is set to the Employees
               data source (such as the Employees table included with the Northwind Traders sample):
         Power Apps
         Employees
       The first item in the gallery is a template that is replicated for each employee. In the
       template, the formula for the picture uses ThisItem to refer to the current item:
         Power Apps
         ThisItem.Picture
       Likewise, the formula for the name also uses ThisItem:
         Power Apps
         ThisItem.'First Name' & " " & ThisItem.'Last Name'
        ThisRecord operator
        ThisRecord is used in functions that have a record scope. For example, we can use the
        Filter function with our gallery's Items property to only show first names that being with
        M:
          Power Apps
          Filter( Employees, StartsWith( ThisRecord.Employee.'First Name', "M" ) )
        ThisRecord is optional and implied by using the fields directly, for example, in this case,
        we could have written:
          Power Apps
          Filter( Employees, StartsWith( 'First Name', "M" ) )
        Although optional, using ThisRecord can make formulas easier to understand and may
        be required in ambiguous situations where a field name may also be a relationship
        name. ThisRecord is optional while ThisItem is always required.
        Use ThisRecord to reference the whole record with Patch, Collect, and other record
        scope functions. For example, the following formula sets the status for all inactive
        employees to active:
          Power Apps
          With( { InactiveEmployees: Filter( Employees, Status = 'Status 
          (Employees)'.Inactive ) },
                ForAll( InactiveEmployees,
                        Patch( Employees, ThisRecord, { Status: 'Status 
          (Employees)'.Active } ) ) )
        As operator
        Use the As operator to name a record in a gallery or record scope function, overriding
        the default ThisItem or ThisRecord. Naming the record can make your formulas easier
        to understand and may be required in nested situations to access records in other
        scopes.
        For example, you can modify the Items property of our gallery to use As to identify that
        we are working with an Employee:
          Power Apps
          Employees As Employee
        The formulas for the picture and name are adjusted to use this name for the current
        record:
          Power Apps
          Employee.Picture
         Power Apps
         Employee.'First Name' & " " & Employee.'Last Name'
       As can also be used with record scope functions to replace the default name
       ThisRecord. We can apply this to our previous example to clarify the record we're
       working with:
         Power Apps
         With( { InactiveEmployees: Filter( Employees, Status = 'Status 
         (Employees)'.Inactive ) },
               ForAll( InactiveEmployees As Employee,
                       Patch( Employees, Employee, { Status: 'Status 
         (Employees)'.Active } ) ) )
       When nesting galleries and record scope functions, ThisItem and ThisRecord always
       refers to the inner most scope, leaving records in outer scopes unavailable. Use As to
       make all record scopes available by giving each a unique name.
       For example, this formula produces a chessboard pattern as a text string by nesting two
       ForAll functions:
         Power Apps
        Concat(
            ForAll( Sequence(8) As Rank,
                Concat(
                    ForAll( Sequence(8) As File,
                            If( Mod(Rank.Value + File.Value, 2) = 1, " X ", " . " )
                    ),
                    Value
                ) & Char(10)
            ),
            Value
        )
       Setting a Label control's Text property to this formula displays:
       Let's unpack what is happening here:
         We start by iterating an unnamed table of 8 numbered records from the Sequence
         function. This loop is for each row of the board, which is commonly referred to as
         Rank and so we give it this name.
         For each row, we iterate another unnamed table of 8 columns, and we give the
         common name File.
         If Rank.Value + File.Value is an odd number, the square gets an X, otherwise a dot.
         This part of the formula is referencing both ForAll loops, made possible by using
         the As operator.
         Concat is used twice, first to assemble the columns and then the rows, with a
         Char(10) thrown in to create a new line.
       A similar example is possible with nested Gallery controls instead of ForAll functions.
       Let's start with the vertical gallery for the Rank. This gallery control will have an Items
       formula of:
         Power Apps
         Sequence(8) as Rank
       Within this gallery, we'll place a horizontal gallery for the File, that will be replicated for
       each Rank, with an Items property of:
         Power Apps
         Sequence(8) as File
              And finally, within this gallery, we'll add a Label control that will be replicated for each
              File and each Rank. We'll size it to fill the entire space and use the Fill property to
              provide the color with this formula:
                 Power Apps
                 If( Mod( Rank.Value + File.Value, 2 ) = 1, Green, Beige )
              Self and Parent operators
              There are three ways to refer to a control and its properties within a formula:
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
                Method       Description
                By control   Any control can be referenced by name from anywhere within the app.
                name
                             For example, Label1.Fill refers to the fill property of the control who's name is Label1.
                Self         It's often convenient to reference another property of the same control when writing
                operator     a formula. Instead of using an absolute reference by name, it's easier and more
                             portable to use a relative reference to oneself. The Self operator provides that easy
                             access to the current control.
                             For example, Self.Fill refers to the fill color of the current control.
           Method    Description
           Parent    Some controls host other controls, such as the Screen and Gallery controls. The
           operator  hosting control of the controls within it's called the parent. Like the Self operator,
                     the Parent operator provides an easy relative reference to the container control.
                     For example, Parent.Fill refers to the fill property of the control that is the container
                     for the current control.
          Self and Parent are operators and not properties on the controls themselves. Referring
          to Parent.Parent, Self.Parent or Parent.Self is not supported.
          Identifier names
          The names of variables, data sources, columns, and other objects can contain any
          Unicode .
          Use single quotes around a name that contains a space or other special character.
          Use two single quotes together to represent one single quote in the name. Names that
          don't contain special characters don't require single quotes.
          Here are some example column names you might encounter in a table, and how they're
          represented in a formula:
                                                                     ﾉ Expand table
           Column name in a database          Column reference in a formula
           SimpleName                         SimpleName
           NameWith123Numbers                 NameWith123Numbers
           Name with spaces                   'Name with spaces'
           Name with "double" quotes          'Name with "double" quotes'
           Name with 'single' quotes          'Name with ''single'' quotes'
           Name with an @ at sign             'Name with an @ at sign'
          Double quotes are used to designate text strings.
          Display names and logical names
      Some data sources such as SharePoint and Microsoft Dataverse have two different
      names to refer to the same table or column of data:
        Logical name - A name that is guaranteed to be unique, doesn't change after
        being created, usually doesn't allow spaces or other special characters, and isn't
        localized into different languages. As a result, the name can be cryptic. These
        names are used by professional developers. For example, cra3a_customfield. This
        name may also be referred to as schema name or just name.
        Display name - A name that is user-friendly and intended to be seen by end users.
        This name may not be unique, may change over time, may contain spaces and any
        Unicode character, and may be localized into different languages. Corresponding
        to the example above, the display name may be Custom Field with space in
        between the words.
      Since display names are easier to understand, Canvas apps will suggest them as choices
      and not suggest logical names. Although logical names aren't suggested, they can still
      be used if typed indirectly.
      For example, imagine you've added a Custom Field to a table in Dataverse. A logical
      name will be assigned for you by the system, which you can modify only when creating
      the field. The result would look similar to:
      When authoring a reference to a field of Accounts, the suggestion will be made to use
      'Custom Field' since this is the display name. Single quotes must be used because this
      name has a space in it:
      After selecting the suggestion, 'Custom Field' is shown in the formula bar and the data is
      retrieved:
      Although it isn't suggested, we could also use the logical name for this field. This will
      result in the same data being retrieved. Single quotes are not required since this name
      doesn't contain spaces or special characters:
      Behind the scenes, a mapping is maintained between the display names seen in
      formulas and the underlying logical names. Since logical names must be used to interact
      with the data source, this mapping is used to convert from the current display name to
      the logical name automatically and that is what is seen in the network traffic. This
      mapping is also used to convert back to logical names to switch into new display names,
      for example, if a display name changes or a maker in a different language edits the app.
       ７ Note
       Logical names are not translated when moving an app between environments. For
       Dataverse system table and field names, this should not be a problem as logical
       names are consistent across environments. But any custom fields, such as
       cra3a_customfield in this example above, may have a different environment prefix
       (cra3a in this case). Display names are preferred as they can be matched against
       display names in the new environment.
      Name disambiguation
      Since display names aren't unique, the same display name may appear more than once
      in the same table. When this happens, the logical name will be added to the end of the
      display name in parentheses for one of more of the conflicting names. Building on the
      example above, if there was a second field with the same display name of Custom Field
      with a logical name of cra3a_customfieldalt then the suggestions would show:
              Name disambiguation strings are added in other situations where name conflicts occur,
              such as the names of table, choices, and other Dataverse items.
              Disambiguation operator
              Some functions create record scopes for accessing the fields of table while processing
              each record, such as Filter, AddColumns, and Sum. Field names added with the record
              scope override the same names from elsewhere in the app. When this happens, you can
              still access values from outside the record scope with the @ disambiguation operator:
                    To access values from nested record scopes, use the @ operator with the name of
                    the table being operated upon using this pattern:
                    Table[@FieldName]
                    To access global values, such as data sources, collections, and context variables,
                    use the pattern [@ObjectName] (without a table designation).
              For more information and examples, see record scopes.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
             Acos, Acot, Asin, Atan, Atan2, Cos, Cot,
             Degrees, Pi, Radians, Sin, and Tan
             functions
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Desktop flows       Model-driven apps        Power
             Pages       Power Platform CLI
             Calculates trigonometric values.
             Description
             Primary functions
             The Cos function returns the cosine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Cot function returns the cotangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Sin function returns the sine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Tan function returns the tangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             Inverse functions
             The Acos function returns the arccosine, or inverse cosine, of its argument. The
             arccosine is the angle whose cosine is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Acot function returns the principal value of the arccotangent, or inverse cotangent,
             of its argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Asin function returns the arcsine, or inverse sine, of its argument. The arcsine is the
             angle whose sine is the argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range
             -π/2 to π/2.
             The Atan function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of its argument. The
             arctangent is the angle whose tangent is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range -π/2 to π/2.
       The Atan2 function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of the specified x and y
       coordinates as arguments. The arctangent is the angle from the x-axis to a line that
       contains the origin (0, 0) and a point with coordinates (x, y). The angle is given in radians
       between -π and π, excluding -π. A positive result represents a counterclockwise angle
       from the x-axis; a negative result represents a clockwise angle. Atan2( a, b ) equals
       Atan( b/a ), except that a can equal 0 (zero) with the Atan2 function.
       Helper functions
       The Degrees function converts radians to degrees. π radians equals 180 degrees.
       The Pi function returns the transcendental number π, which begins 3.141592...
       The Radians function converts degrees to radians.
       Notes
       If you pass a single number to these functions, the return value is a single result. If you
       pass a single-column table that contains numbers, the return value is a single-column
       table of results with a Value column, one result for each record in the argument's table.
       If you have a multi-column table, you can shape it into a single-column table, as
       working with tables describes.
       If an argument would result in an undefined value, the result is blank. This can happen,
       for example, when using inverse functions with arguments that are out of range.
       Syntax
       Primary Functions
       Cos( Radians )
       Cot( Radians )
       Sin( Radians )
       Tan( Radians )
          Radians - Required. Angle to operate on.
       Cos( SingleColumnTable )
       Cot( SingleColumnTable )
       Sin( SingleColumnTable )
       Tan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of angles to operate on.
        Inverse Functions
        Acos( Number )
        Acot( Number )
        Asin( Number )
        Atan( Number )
            Number - Required. Number to operate on.
        Acos( SingleColumnTable )
        Acot( SingleColumnTable )
        Asin( SingleColumnTable )
        Atan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of numbers to operate on.
        Atan2( X, Y )
            X - Required. X-axis coordinate.
            Y - Required. Y-axis coordinate.
        Helper Functions
        Degrees( Radians )
            Radians - Required. Angle in radians to convert to degrees.
        Pi()
        Radians( Degrees )
            Degrees - Required. Angle in degrees to convert to radians.
        Examples
        Single number
                                                       ﾉ
                                                         Expand table
                Formula               Description                                                      Result
                Cos( 1.047197 )       Returns the cosine of 1.047197 radians or 60 degrees.            0.5
                Cot( Pi()/4 )         Returns the cotangent of 0.785398... radians or 45 degrees.      1
                Sin( Pi()/2 )         Returns the sine of 1.570796... radians or 90 degrees.           1
                Tan( Radians(60) )    Returns the tangent of 1.047197... radians or 60 degrees.        1.732050...
                Acos( 0.5 )           Returns the arccosine of 0.5, in radians.                        1.047197...
                Acot( 1 )             Returns the arccotangent of 1, in radians.                       0.785398...
                Asin( 1 )             Returns the arcsine of 1, in radians.                            1.570796...
                Atan( 1.732050 )      Returns the arctangent of 1.732050, in radians.                  1.047197...
                Atan2( 5, 3 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.540419...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (5,3), which is
                                      approximately 31 degrees.
                Atan2( 4, 4 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.785398...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (4,4), which is
                                      exactly π/4 radians or 45 degrees.
                Degrees( 1.047197 )   Returns the equivalent number of degrees for 1.047197            60
                                      radians.
                Pi()                  Returns the transcendental number π.                             3.141592...
                Radians( 15 )         Returns the equivalent number of radians for 15 degrees.         0.261799...
              Single-column table
              The examples in this section use a data source that's named ValueTable and that
              contains the following data. The last record in the table is π/2 radians or 90 degrees.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
                Value
                0.5
                -2
                1.570796...
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
               Formula                  Description                       Result
               Cos( ValueTable )        Returns the cosine of each        A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.877582..., -0.416146..., 0
               Cot( ValueTable )        Returns the cotangent of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.830487..., 0.457657..., 0
               Sin( ValueTable )        Returns the sine of each          A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.479425, -0.909297..., 1
               Tan( ValueTable )        Returns the tangent of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.546302..., 2.185039...,
                                                                          3060023.306952...
               Acos( ValueTable )       Returns the arccosine of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.047197..., Blank(), Blank()
               Acot( ValueTable )       Returns the arccotangent of       A single-column table with a Value
                                        each number in the table.         column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.107138..., 2.677945...,
                                                                          0.566911...
               Asin( ValueTable )       Returns the arcsine of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.523598..., Blank(), Blank()
               Atan( ValueTable )       Returns the arctangent of each    A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.463647..., -1.107148...,
                                                                          1.00388...
               Degrees( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of degrees for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 28.647889..., -114.591559..., 90
                                        in radians.
               Radians( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of radians for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 0.008726..., -0.034906...,
                                        in degrees.                       0.027415...
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
             Assert function
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps        Power Pages
             An assertion is a condition or an expression that evaluates to true or false in a test. If the
             expression returns false, the test case will fail. Assertions are used to validate the
             expected result of a test or test step, against the actual result and to fail the test if the
             condition is false. Assertions can be used to validate the state of controls in your app
             such as label values, list box selections and other control properties.
                ） Important
                Assert function is only available for Test Studio in Power Apps.
             Assertion messages, for both passed and failed assertions, are also contained in a Traces
             table in the TestCaseResult record.
             Syntax
             Assert(expression, message)
                   Expression – Required. An expression that evaluates to true or false.
                   Message – Not Required. A message that describes the assertion failure.
             Examples
             Assert(lblResult.Text = "Success", "lblResult value Expected : Success , Actual : "
             & lblResult.Text)
             Assert(ListBox1.Selected.Value = "Success", "ListBox1 selection Expected : Success,
             Actual : " & ListBox1.Selected.Value)
             Assert(kudosAfterTest = kudosBeforeTest + 1, "Kudos count. Expected : " &
             kudosBeforeTest + 1 & " Actual :" & kudosAfterTest)
             See Also
             Test Studio Overview
             Working with Test Studio
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
        AsType and IsType functions
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
         Function  Applies to
         AsType         Canvas apps     Copilot Studio   Model-driven apps    Power Platform CLI 
                   Dataverse functions    Power Pages
         IsType         Canvas apps     Copilot Studio   Model-driven apps    Dataverse functions 
                   Power Pages
        Checks if a record reference is a specific table type (IsType) and treats the reference as that type
        (AsType).
          ７ Note
          PAC CLI pac power-fx commands don't support IsType.
        Description
        The AsType and IsType functions can be used to convert record references (for example
        polymorphic lookups in Dataverse) and dynamic values to typed values that can be used directly.
        Record References
        Read Understand record references and polymorphic lookups for a broader introduction and
        more details.
        A lookup field usually refers to records in a particular table. Because the table type is well
        established, access the fields of the lookup using simple dot notation. For example, First(
        Accounts ).'Primary Contact'.'Full Name' walks from the Accounts table to the Primary Contact
        record in the Contacts table and extracts the Full Name field.
        Microsoft Dataverse also supports polymorphic lookup fields, which can refer to records from a
        set of tables, as in these examples.
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
          Lookup field             Can refer to
          Owner                    Users or Teams
          Customer                 Accounts or Contacts
          Regarding                Accounts, Contacts, Knowledge Articles, etc.
        In canvas-app formulas, use record references to work with polymorphic lookups. Because a
        record reference can refer to different tables, you can't know which fields are available at runtime
        when you write a formula. The Record.Field notation isn't available. These formulas need to adapt
        to the records that the app encounters when it runs.
        The IsType function checks if a record reference refers to a specific table type. The function
        returns a Boolean TRUE or FALSE.
        The AsType function treats a record reference as a specific table type, also called casting. You use
        the result as if it's a record of the table and use the Record.Field notation to access all the fields of
        that record. If the reference isn't of the specific type, an error occurs.
        Use these functions together to first check the table type of a record and then treat it as a record
        of that type so the fields are available:
          Power Fx
          If( IsType( First( Accounts ).Owner, Users ),
              AsType( First( Accounts ).Owner, Users ).'Full Name',
              AsType( First( Accounts ).Owner, Teams ).'Team Name'
          )
        You need these functions only if you access the fields of a record reference. For example, you use
        record references in the Filter function without IsType or AsType:
          Power Fx
          Filter( Accounts, Owner = First( Users ) )
        Similarly, you can use record references with the Patch function:
          Power Fx
          Patch( Accounts, First( Accounts ), { Owner: First( Teams ) } )
     When you use these functions in a record context, such as within a Gallery or Edit form control,
     you might need the global disambiguation operator to reference the table type. For example, this
     formula works for a gallery that displays a list of contacts where Company Name is a Customer
     lookup:
      Power Fx
      If( IsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Accounts ),
          AsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Accounts ).'Account Name',
          AsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Contacts ).'Full Name'
      )
     For both functions, specify the type by using the name of the data source connected to the table.
     For the formula to work, add a data source to the app for any types you want to check or cast.
     For example, add the Users table as a data source if you want to use IsType and AsType with an
     Owner lookup and records from that table. Add only the data sources you use in your app; you
     don't need to add all the tables that a lookup could reference.
     If the record reference is blank, IsType returns FALSE, and AsType returns blank. All fields of a
     blank record are also blank.
     Dynamic values
     A Dynamic value from a web API or the [ParseJSON function] needs to be converted to a specific
     typed value before you can use it in Power Fx. Here are some options:
       1. Implicitly type the field at the point you use it. For example, an object converts to a number
        if you use it with the + operator, if it can be converted to a number. This option can cause
        unexpected conversions and can't convert records and tables as a whole.
       2. Explicitly type each field individually with the Decimal, Text, DateTime, GUID, and other
        type constructor functions. This option is the most invasive to your formulas because you
        need to do each field separately.
       3. Explicitly type JSON with the second argument to the ParseJSON function. This option is
        easy and avoids needing the Dynamic value.
       4. Explicitly type a Dynamic value using the AsType function. You can also check the type
        before you try the conversion with the IsType function.
     Syntax
     AsType( RecordReference, TableType )
       RecordReference - Required. A record reference, often a lookup field that refers to a record
       in any of several tables.
       TableType - Required. The specific table to cast the record to.
    AsType( DynamicValue, TypeSpecification )
       DynamicValue - Required. A dynamic value from the ParseJSON function or API call.
       TypeSpecification - Required. A type name or type specification you define with the Type
       function.
    IsType( RecordReference, TableType )
       RecordReference - Required. A record reference, often a lookup field that can refer to a
       record in any of multiple tables.
       TableType - Required. The specific table to test for.
    IsType( DynamicValue, TypeSpecification )
       DynamicValue - Required. A dynamic value from the ParseJSON function or an API call.
       TypeSpecification - Required. A type name or type specification defined with the Type
       function.
    Examples
    Record References
    Understand record references and polymorphic lookups contains extensive examples.
      1. Create a blank canvas app for tablets.
      2. On the left pane, select Data > Add data, and then add Accounts and Contacts tables.
     3. On the left pane, select + (Insert) > Layout > Blank vertical gallery.
     4. Select Connect to data, and then select Contacts as the data source.
     5. Set the gallery layout to Title and subtitle.
     6. In the Data pane, open the Title1 list, and then select Full Name.
     7. Select the Subtitle1 label control.
      8. Set the Text property of Subtitle1 to this formula:
        Power Fx
        If( IsBlank( ThisItem.'Company Name' ), "--",
            IsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Accounts ),
                "Account: " & AsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Accounts ).'Account Name',
            "Contact: " & AsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Contacts ).'Full Name'
        )
       The subtitle in the gallery shows these values:
          "--" if the 'Company Name' is blank.
          "Account: " and the Account Name field from the Accounts table if the Company
          Name field refers to an account.
          "Contact: " and the Full Name field from the Contacts table if the Company Name
          field refers to a contact.
        Your results can differ because the sample data can be modified to show more types of
        results.
     Dynamic values
     The following examples show a simple JSON record interpreted in various ways by ParseJSON,
     AsType, and IsType in the Pac CLI Power Fx REPL.
     In this first example, no type information is provided to ParseJSON, so it returns a dynamic value.
      Power Apps
      >> Set( rec, ParseJSON( "{""a"":1}" ) )
      rec: <Dynamic: Use Value, Text, Boolean, or other functions to establish the type>
     The field is implicitly converted to a number when used in a numerical context.
      Power Apps
      >> 1 + rec.a
      2
     As an alternative, this example explicitly converts the record to a typed Power Fx record with the
     second argument to ParseJSON.
      Power Apps
      >> ParseJSON( "{""a"":1}", Type( {a: Number} ) )
      {a:1}
     And another alternative, this example explicitly converts the record to a typed Power Fx record
     using AsType.
      Power Apps
      >> AsType( ParseJSON( "{""a"":1}" ), Type( {a: Number} ) )
      {a:1}
     Finally, if you aren't sure, this example tests the type before converting it with the IsType
     function.
      Power Apps
      >> IsType( ParseJSON( "{""a"":1}" ), Type( {a: Number} ) )
      true
      Last updated on 05/04/2026
             Acos, Acot, Asin, Atan, Atan2, Cos, Cot,
             Degrees, Pi, Radians, Sin, and Tan
             functions
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Desktop flows       Model-driven apps        Power
             Pages       Power Platform CLI
             Calculates trigonometric values.
             Description
             Primary functions
             The Cos function returns the cosine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Cot function returns the cotangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Sin function returns the sine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Tan function returns the tangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             Inverse functions
             The Acos function returns the arccosine, or inverse cosine, of its argument. The
             arccosine is the angle whose cosine is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Acot function returns the principal value of the arccotangent, or inverse cotangent,
             of its argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Asin function returns the arcsine, or inverse sine, of its argument. The arcsine is the
             angle whose sine is the argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range
             -π/2 to π/2.
             The Atan function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of its argument. The
             arctangent is the angle whose tangent is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range -π/2 to π/2.
       The Atan2 function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of the specified x and y
       coordinates as arguments. The arctangent is the angle from the x-axis to a line that
       contains the origin (0, 0) and a point with coordinates (x, y). The angle is given in radians
       between -π and π, excluding -π. A positive result represents a counterclockwise angle
       from the x-axis; a negative result represents a clockwise angle. Atan2( a, b ) equals
       Atan( b/a ), except that a can equal 0 (zero) with the Atan2 function.
       Helper functions
       The Degrees function converts radians to degrees. π radians equals 180 degrees.
       The Pi function returns the transcendental number π, which begins 3.141592...
       The Radians function converts degrees to radians.
       Notes
       If you pass a single number to these functions, the return value is a single result. If you
       pass a single-column table that contains numbers, the return value is a single-column
       table of results with a Value column, one result for each record in the argument's table.
       If you have a multi-column table, you can shape it into a single-column table, as
       working with tables describes.
       If an argument would result in an undefined value, the result is blank. This can happen,
       for example, when using inverse functions with arguments that are out of range.
       Syntax
       Primary Functions
       Cos( Radians )
       Cot( Radians )
       Sin( Radians )
       Tan( Radians )
          Radians - Required. Angle to operate on.
       Cos( SingleColumnTable )
       Cot( SingleColumnTable )
       Sin( SingleColumnTable )
       Tan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of angles to operate on.
        Inverse Functions
        Acos( Number )
        Acot( Number )
        Asin( Number )
        Atan( Number )
            Number - Required. Number to operate on.
        Acos( SingleColumnTable )
        Acot( SingleColumnTable )
        Asin( SingleColumnTable )
        Atan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of numbers to operate on.
        Atan2( X, Y )
            X - Required. X-axis coordinate.
            Y - Required. Y-axis coordinate.
        Helper Functions
        Degrees( Radians )
            Radians - Required. Angle in radians to convert to degrees.
        Pi()
        Radians( Degrees )
            Degrees - Required. Angle in degrees to convert to radians.
        Examples
        Single number
                                                       ﾉ
                                                         Expand table
                Formula               Description                                                      Result
                Cos( 1.047197 )       Returns the cosine of 1.047197 radians or 60 degrees.            0.5
                Cot( Pi()/4 )         Returns the cotangent of 0.785398... radians or 45 degrees.      1
                Sin( Pi()/2 )         Returns the sine of 1.570796... radians or 90 degrees.           1
                Tan( Radians(60) )    Returns the tangent of 1.047197... radians or 60 degrees.        1.732050...
                Acos( 0.5 )           Returns the arccosine of 0.5, in radians.                        1.047197...
                Acot( 1 )             Returns the arccotangent of 1, in radians.                       0.785398...
                Asin( 1 )             Returns the arcsine of 1, in radians.                            1.570796...
                Atan( 1.732050 )      Returns the arctangent of 1.732050, in radians.                  1.047197...
                Atan2( 5, 3 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.540419...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (5,3), which is
                                      approximately 31 degrees.
                Atan2( 4, 4 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.785398...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (4,4), which is
                                      exactly π/4 radians or 45 degrees.
                Degrees( 1.047197 )   Returns the equivalent number of degrees for 1.047197            60
                                      radians.
                Pi()                  Returns the transcendental number π.                             3.141592...
                Radians( 15 )         Returns the equivalent number of radians for 15 degrees.         0.261799...
              Single-column table
              The examples in this section use a data source that's named ValueTable and that
              contains the following data. The last record in the table is π/2 radians or 90 degrees.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
                Value
                0.5
                -2
                1.570796...
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
               Formula                  Description                       Result
               Cos( ValueTable )        Returns the cosine of each        A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.877582..., -0.416146..., 0
               Cot( ValueTable )        Returns the cotangent of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.830487..., 0.457657..., 0
               Sin( ValueTable )        Returns the sine of each          A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.479425, -0.909297..., 1
               Tan( ValueTable )        Returns the tangent of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.546302..., 2.185039...,
                                                                          3060023.306952...
               Acos( ValueTable )       Returns the arccosine of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.047197..., Blank(), Blank()
               Acot( ValueTable )       Returns the arccotangent of       A single-column table with a Value
                                        each number in the table.         column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.107138..., 2.677945...,
                                                                          0.566911...
               Asin( ValueTable )       Returns the arcsine of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.523598..., Blank(), Blank()
               Atan( ValueTable )       Returns the arctangent of each    A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.463647..., -1.107148...,
                                                                          1.00388...
               Degrees( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of degrees for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 28.647889..., -114.591559..., 90
                                        in radians.
               Radians( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of radians for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 0.008726..., -0.034906...,
                                        in degrees.                       0.027415...
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
             Acos, Acot, Asin, Atan, Atan2, Cos, Cot,
             Degrees, Pi, Radians, Sin, and Tan
             functions
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Desktop flows       Model-driven apps        Power
             Pages       Power Platform CLI
             Calculates trigonometric values.
             Description
             Primary functions
             The Cos function returns the cosine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Cot function returns the cotangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Sin function returns the sine of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             The Tan function returns the tangent of its argument, an angle specified in radians.
             Inverse functions
             The Acos function returns the arccosine, or inverse cosine, of its argument. The
             arccosine is the angle whose cosine is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Acot function returns the principal value of the arccotangent, or inverse cotangent,
             of its argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range 0 (zero) to π.
             The Asin function returns the arcsine, or inverse sine, of its argument. The arcsine is the
             angle whose sine is the argument. The returned angle is given in radians in the range
             -π/2 to π/2.
             The Atan function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of its argument. The
             arctangent is the angle whose tangent is the argument. The returned angle is given in
             radians in the range -π/2 to π/2.
       The Atan2 function returns the arctangent, or inverse tangent, of the specified x and y
       coordinates as arguments. The arctangent is the angle from the x-axis to a line that
       contains the origin (0, 0) and a point with coordinates (x, y). The angle is given in radians
       between -π and π, excluding -π. A positive result represents a counterclockwise angle
       from the x-axis; a negative result represents a clockwise angle. Atan2( a, b ) equals
       Atan( b/a ), except that a can equal 0 (zero) with the Atan2 function.
       Helper functions
       The Degrees function converts radians to degrees. π radians equals 180 degrees.
       The Pi function returns the transcendental number π, which begins 3.141592...
       The Radians function converts degrees to radians.
       Notes
       If you pass a single number to these functions, the return value is a single result. If you
       pass a single-column table that contains numbers, the return value is a single-column
       table of results with a Value column, one result for each record in the argument's table.
       If you have a multi-column table, you can shape it into a single-column table, as
       working with tables describes.
       If an argument would result in an undefined value, the result is blank. This can happen,
       for example, when using inverse functions with arguments that are out of range.
       Syntax
       Primary Functions
       Cos( Radians )
       Cot( Radians )
       Sin( Radians )
       Tan( Radians )
          Radians - Required. Angle to operate on.
       Cos( SingleColumnTable )
       Cot( SingleColumnTable )
       Sin( SingleColumnTable )
       Tan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of angles to operate on.
        Inverse Functions
        Acos( Number )
        Acot( Number )
        Asin( Number )
        Atan( Number )
            Number - Required. Number to operate on.
        Acos( SingleColumnTable )
        Acot( SingleColumnTable )
        Asin( SingleColumnTable )
        Atan( SingleColumnTable )
            SingleColumnTable - Required. A single-column table of numbers to operate on.
        Atan2( X, Y )
            X - Required. X-axis coordinate.
            Y - Required. Y-axis coordinate.
        Helper Functions
        Degrees( Radians )
            Radians - Required. Angle in radians to convert to degrees.
        Pi()
        Radians( Degrees )
            Degrees - Required. Angle in degrees to convert to radians.
        Examples
        Single number
                                                       ﾉ
                                                         Expand table
                Formula               Description                                                      Result
                Cos( 1.047197 )       Returns the cosine of 1.047197 radians or 60 degrees.            0.5
                Cot( Pi()/4 )         Returns the cotangent of 0.785398... radians or 45 degrees.      1
                Sin( Pi()/2 )         Returns the sine of 1.570796... radians or 90 degrees.           1
                Tan( Radians(60) )    Returns the tangent of 1.047197... radians or 60 degrees.        1.732050...
                Acos( 0.5 )           Returns the arccosine of 0.5, in radians.                        1.047197...
                Acot( 1 )             Returns the arccotangent of 1, in radians.                       0.785398...
                Asin( 1 )             Returns the arcsine of 1, in radians.                            1.570796...
                Atan( 1.732050 )      Returns the arctangent of 1.732050, in radians.                  1.047197...
                Atan2( 5, 3 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.540419...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (5,3), which is
                                      approximately 31 degrees.
                Atan2( 4, 4 )         Returns the arctangent of the angle from the x-axis of the line  0.785398...
                                      that contains the origin (0,0) and the coordinate (4,4), which is
                                      exactly π/4 radians or 45 degrees.
                Degrees( 1.047197 )   Returns the equivalent number of degrees for 1.047197            60
                                      radians.
                Pi()                  Returns the transcendental number π.                             3.141592...
                Radians( 15 )         Returns the equivalent number of radians for 15 degrees.         0.261799...
              Single-column table
              The examples in this section use a data source that's named ValueTable and that
              contains the following data. The last record in the table is π/2 radians or 90 degrees.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
                Value
                0.5
                -2
                1.570796...
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
               Formula                  Description                       Result
               Cos( ValueTable )        Returns the cosine of each        A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.877582..., -0.416146..., 0
               Cot( ValueTable )        Returns the cotangent of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.830487..., 0.457657..., 0
               Sin( ValueTable )        Returns the sine of each          A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.479425, -0.909297..., 1
               Tan( ValueTable )        Returns the tangent of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.546302..., 2.185039...,
                                                                          3060023.306952...
               Acos( ValueTable )       Returns the arccosine of each     A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.047197..., Blank(), Blank()
               Acot( ValueTable )       Returns the arccotangent of       A single-column table with a Value
                                        each number in the table.         column containing the following
                                                                          values: 1.107138..., 2.677945...,
                                                                          0.566911...
               Asin( ValueTable )       Returns the arcsine of each       A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.523598..., Blank(), Blank()
               Atan( ValueTable )       Returns the arctangent of each    A single-column table with a Value
                                        number in the table.              column containing the following
                                                                          values: 0.463647..., -1.107148...,
                                                                          1.00388...
               Degrees( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of degrees for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 28.647889..., -114.591559..., 90
                                        in radians.
               Radians( ValueTable )    Returns the equivalent number     A single-column table with a Value
                                        of radians for each number in     column containing the following
                                        the table, assumed to be angles   values: 0.008726..., -0.034906...,
                                        in degrees.                       0.027415...
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
         Average, Max, Min, StdevP, Sum, and VarP
         functions
         Article • 04/20/2025
                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
           Functions  Applies to
           Average         Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Dataverse formula
           Max        columns      Model-driven apps    Power Platform CLI    Dataverse functions 
           Min        Power Pages
           Sum
           StdevP          Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Model-driven apps
           VarP            Power Platform CLI   Dataverse functions   Power Pages
         Aggregate functions that summarize a set of numbers.
         Description
         The Average function calculates the average, or arithmetic mean, of its arguments.
         The Max function finds the maximum value.
         The Min function finds the minimum value.
         The Sum function calculates the sum of its arguments.
         The StdevP function calculates the standard deviation of its arguments.
         The VarP function calculates the variance of its arguments.
         You can supply the values for these functions as:
               Separate arguments. For example, Sum( 1, 2, 3 ) returns 6.
               A table and a formula to operate over that table. The aggregate will be calculated on the
               values of the formula for each record.
         Fields of the record currently being processed are available within the formula. Use the
         ThisRecord operator or simply reference fields by name as you would any other value. The As
         operator can also be used to name the record being processed which can help make your
         formula easier to understand and make nested records accessible. For more information, see
         the examples below and working with record scope.
     These functions operate on numeric values only. Other types of values, such as strings or
     records, are ignored. Use the Value function to convert a string into a number.
     The Average, Max, Min, and Sum functions can be delegated when used with a data source
     that supports delegation for these functions. However, StdevP and VarP can't be delegated for
     any data sources. If delegation is not supported, only the first portion of the data will be
     retrieved and then the function applied locally. The result may not represent the complete
     story. A delegation warning will appear at authoring time to remind you of this limitation and
     to suggest switching to delegable alternatives where possible. For more information, see the
     delegation overview.
     Syntax
     Average( NumericalFormula1, [ NumericalFormula2, ... ] )
     Max( NumericalFormula1, [ NumericalFormula2, ... ] )
     Min( NumericalFormula1, [ NumericalFormula2, ... ] )
     Sum( NumericalFormula1, [ NumericalFormula2, ... ] )
     StdevP( NumericalFormula1, [ NumericalFormula2, ... ] )
     VarP( NumericalFormula1, [ NumericalFormula2, ... ] )
       NumericalFormula(s) - Required. Numeric values to operate on.
     Average( Table, NumericalFormula )
     Max( Table, NumericalFormula )
     Min( Table, NumericalFormula )
     Sum( Table, NumericalFormula )
     StdevP( Table, NumericalFormula )
     VarP( Table, NumericalFormula )
       Table - Required. Table to operate on.
       NumericalFormula - Required. Formula to evaluate for each record. The result of this
       formula is used for the aggregation. You can use columns of the table in the formula.
     Examples
     Step by step
     Let's say that you had a data source named Sales that contained a CostPerUnit column and a
     UnitsSold column, and you set the Text property of a label to this function:
     Sum(Sales, CostPerUnit * UnitsSold)
    The label would show total sales by multiplying the values in those columns for each record
    and then adding the results from all records together:
    As a different example, let's say that you had sliders that were named Slider1, Slider2, and
    Slider3 and a label with its Text property set to this formula:
    Sum(Slider1.Value, Slider2.Value, Slider3.Value): The label would show the sum of all values to
    which the sliders were set.
    Average(Slider1.Value, Slider2.Value, Slider3.Value): The label would show the average of all
    values to which the sliders were set.
    Max(Slider1.Value, Slider2.Value, Slider3.Value): The label would show the maximum of all
    values to which the sliders were set.
    Min(Slider1.Value, Slider2.Value, Slider3.Value): The label would show the minimum of all
    values to which the sliders were set.
    StdevP(Slider1.Value, Slider2.Value, Slider3.Value): The label would show the standard
    deviation of all values to which the sliders were set.
    VarP(Slider1.Value, Slider2.Value, Slider3.Value): The label would show the variance of all
    values to which the sliders were set.
             Back and Navigate functions
             Article • 03/22/2024
             Changes which screen is displayed.
             Overview
             Most apps contain multiple screens. Use the Back and Navigate function to change
             which screen is displayed. For example, set the OnSelect property of a button to a
             formula that includes a Navigate function if you want to show a different screen when a
             user selects that button. In that formula, you can specify a visual transition, such as Fade,
             to control how one screen changes to another.
             Back and Navigate change only which screen is displayed. Screens that aren't currently
             displayed continue to operate behind the scenes. You can build formulas that refer to
             properties of controls on other screens. For example, a user can change the value of a
             slider on one screen, navigate to a different screen that uses that value in a formula, and
             determine how it affects what happens in the new screen. The user can then navigate
             back to the original screen and confirm that the slider has kept its value.
             Context variables are also preserved when a user navigates between screens. You can
             use Navigate to set one or more context variables for the screen that the formula will
             display, which is the only way to set a context variable from outside the screen. You can
             use this approach to pass parameters to a screen. If you've used another programming
             tool, this approach is similar to passing parameters to procedures.
             Use the App object's StartScreen property to control the first screen to be displayed.
             You can use either function only within a behavior formula.
             Navigate
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps
             In the first argument, specify the name of the screen to display.
             In the second argument, specify how the old screen changes to the new screen:
                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
               Transition Argument            Description                           Demonstration
               ScreenTransition.Cover         The new screen slides into view,
                                              moving right to left, to cover the
                                              current screen.
               ScreenTransition.CoverRight    The new screen slides into view,
                                              moving left to right, to cover the
                                              current screen.
               ScreenTransition.Fade          The current screen fades away to
                                              reveal the new screen.
               ScreenTransition.None          The new screen quickly replaces the
               (Default)                      current screen.
               ScreenTransition.UnCover       The current screen slides out of view,
                                              moving right to left, to uncover the
                                              new screen.
               ScreenTransition.UnCoverRight  The current screen slides out of view,
                                              moving left to right, to uncover the
                                              new screen.
             You can use Navigate to create or update context variables of the new screen. As an
             optional third argument, pass a record that contains the context-variable name as a
             column name and the new value for the context variable. This record is the same as the
             record that you use with the UpdateContext function.
             Set the OnHidden property of the old screen, the OnVisible property of the new screen,
             or both to make additional changes during the transition. The App.ActiveScreen
             property will be updated to reflect the change.
             Navigate normally returns true but will return false if an error is encountered.
             Context variables for navigation are explained in the article navigate between screens.
             Back
             Applies to:      Canvas apps
             The Back function returns to the screen that was most recently displayed.
             For each Navigate call, the app tracks the screen that appeared and the transition. You
             can use successive Back calls to return all the way to the screen that appeared when the
             user started the app.
             When the Back function runs, the inverse transition is used by default. For example, if a
             screen appeared through the CoverRight transition, Back uses UnCover (which is to the
             left) to return. Fade and None are their own inverses. Pass an optional argument to Back
             to force a specific transition.
             Back normally returns true but returns false if the user hasn't navigated to another
             screen since starting the app.
             Syntax
             Back( [ Transition ] )
                   Transition - Optional. The visual transition to use between the current screen and
                   the previous screen. Refer to the list of valid values for this argument earlier in this
                   article. By default, the transition through which a screen returns is the inverse of
                   the transition through which it appeared.
             Navigate( Screen [, Transition [, UpdateContextRecord ] ] )
                   Screen - Required. The screen to display. In place of Screen, you can also use a
                   control that is on the screen you wish to navigate to.
                   Transition - Optional. The visual transition to use between the current screen and
                   the next screen. See the list of valid values for this argument earlier in this article.
                   The default value is None.
                   UpdateContextRecord - Optional. A record that contains the name of at least one
                   column and a value for each column. This record updates the context variables of
                   the new screen as if passed to the UpdateContext function.
             Examples
                                                                                        ﾉ
                                                                                           Expand table
                Formula                           Description                   Result
                Navigate( Details )               Displays the Details          The Details screen appears
                                                  screen with no transition     quickly.
                                                  or change in value for a
                                                  context variable.
                Navigate( Details,                Displays the Details          The current screen fades away to
                ScreenTransition.Fade )           screen with a Fade            show the Details screen.
                                                  transition. No value of a
                                                  context variable is
                                                  changed.
                Navigate( Details,                Displays the Details          The current screen fades away to
                ScreenTransition.Fade,            screen with a Fade            show the Details screen, and the
                { ID: 12 } )                      transition, and updates       context variable ID on that screen
                                                  the value of the ID context   is set to 12.
                                                  variable to 12.
                Navigate( Details,                Displays the Details          The current screen fades away to
                ScreenTransition.Fade,            screen with a Fade            show the Details screen. The
                { ID: 12 , Shade: Color.Red } )   transition. Updates the       context variable ID on the Details
                                                  value of the ID context       screen is set to 12, and the context
                                                  variable to 12, and           variable Shade is set to Color.Red.
                                                  updates the value of the      If you set the Fill property of a
                                                  Shade context variable to     control on the Details screen to
                                                  Color.Red.                    Shade, that control would display
                                                                                as red.
                Back()                            Displays the previous         Displays the previous screen
                                                  screen with the default       through the inverse transition of
                                                  return transition.            the transition through which the
                                                                                current screen appeared.
                Back( ScreenTransition.Cover )    Displays the previous         Displays the previous screen
                                                  screen with the Cover         through the Cover transition,
                                                  transition.                   regardless of the transition
                                                                                through which the current screen
                                                                                appeared.
              Step-by-step
                  1. Create a blank app.
                  2. Add a second screen to it.
                     The app contains two blank screens: Screen1 and Screen2.
                  3. Set the Fill property of Screen2 to the value Gray.
          4. On Screen2, add a button, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
             Power Apps
              Navigate( Screen1, ScreenTransition.Cover )
          5. While holding down the Alt key, select the button.
            Screen1 appears with a white background through a transition that covers to the
            left.
          6. On Screen1, add a button, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
             Power Apps
              Back()
          7. While holding down the Alt key, select the button.
            The second screen appears with a gray background through a transition that
            uncovers to the right (the inverse of Cover).
          8. Select the button on each screen repeatedly to bounce back and forth.
        See also
        Using context variables
         Blank, Coalesce, IsBlank, and IsEmpty
         functions
         06/19/2025
                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
           Functions  Applies to
           Blank           Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Dataverse formula
                      columns      Model-driven apps    Power Platform CLI    Dataverse functions
           Coalesce        Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Model-driven apps
           IsEmpty         Power Platform CLI   Dataverse functions   Power Pages
           IsBlank         Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Dataverse formula
                      columns      Model-driven apps    Power Platform CLI    Dataverse functions 
                      Power Pages
         Tests whether a value is blank or a table contains no records, and provides a way to create
         blank values.
         Overview
         Blank is a placeholder for "no value" or "unknown value." For example, a Combo box control's
         Selected property is blank if the user hasn't made a selection. Many data sources can store and
         return NULL values, which are represented in Power Apps as blank.
         Any property or calculated value in Power Apps can be blank. For example, a Boolean value
         normally has one of two values: true or false. But in addition to these two, it can also be blank
         indicating that the state is not known. This is similar to Microsoft Excel, where a worksheet cell
         starts out as blank with no contents but can hold the values TRUE or FALSE (among others). At
         any time, the contents of the cell can again be cleared, returning it to a blank state.
         Empty string refers to a string that contains no characters. The Len function returns zero for
         such a string and it can be written in a formulas as two double quotes with nothing in between
          "". Some controls and data sources use an empty string to indicate a "no value" condition. To
         simplify app creation, the IsBlank and Coalesce functions test for both blank values or empty
         strings.
         In the context of the IsEmpty function, empty is specific to tables that contain no records. The
         table structure may be intact, complete with column names, but no data is in the table. A table
     may start as empty, take on records and no longer be empty, and then have the records
     removed and again be empty.
     Blank
     The Blank function returns a blank value. Use this to store a NULL value in a data source that
     supports these values, effectively removing any value from the field.
     IsBlank
     The IsBlank function tests for a blank value or an empty string. The test includes empty strings
     to ease app creation since some data sources and controls use an empty string when there is
     no value present. To test specifically for a blank value use if( Value = Blank(), ... instead of
     IsBlank. The IsBlank function considers empty tables as not blank, and IsEmpty should be used
     to test a table.
     When enabling error handling for existing apps, consider replacing IsBlank with IsBlankOrError
     to preserve existing app behavior. Prior to the addition of error handling, a blank value was
     used to represent both null values from databases and error values. Error handling separates
     these two interpretations of blank which could change the behavior of existing apps that
     continue to use IsBlank.
     The return value for IsBlank is a boolean true or false.
     Coalesce
     The Coalesce function evaluates its arguments in order and returns the first value that isn't
     blank or an empty string. Use this function to replace a blank value or empty string with a
     different value but leave non-blank and non-empty string values unchanged. If all the
     arguments are blank or empty strings then the function returns blank, making Coalesce a good
     way to convert empty strings to blank values.
     Coalesce( value1, value2 ) is the more concise equivalent of If( Not IsBlank( value1 ),
     value1, Not IsBlank( value2 ), value2 ) and doesn't require value1 and value2 to be
     evaluated twice. The If function returns blank if there is no "else" formula as is the case here.
     All arguments to Coalesce must be of the same type; for example, you can't mix numbers with
     text strings. The return value from Coalesce is of this common type.
     IsEmpty
      The IsEmpty function tests whether a table contains any records. It's equivalent to using the
      CountRows function and checking for zero. You can check for data-source errors by combining
      IsEmpty with the Errors function.
      The return value for IsEmpty is a Boolean true or false.
      Syntax
      Blank()
      Coalesce( Value1 [, Value2, ... ] )
         Value(s) – Required. Values to test. Each value is evaluated in order until a value that is not
         blank and not an empty string is found. Values after this point are not evaluated.
      IsBlank( Value )
         Value – Required. Value to test for a blank value or empty string.
      IsEmpty( Table )
         Table - Required. Table to test for records.
      Examples
      Blank
        1. Create an app from scratch, and add a Button control.
        2. Set the button's OnSelect property to this formula:
          Power Fx
           ClearCollect( Cities, { Name: "Seattle", Weather: "Rainy" } )
        3. Preview your app, click or tap the button that you added, and then close Preview.
        4. On the File menu, click or tap Collections.
         The Cities collection appears, showing one record with "Seattle" and "Rainy":
       5. Click or tap the back arrow to return to the default workspace.
       6. Add a Label control, and set its Text property to this formula:
          Power Fx
          IsBlank( First( Cities ).Weather )
        The label shows false because the Weather field contains a value ("Rainy").
       7. Add a second button, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
          Power Fx
          Patch( Cities, First( Cities ), { Weather: Blank() } )
       8. Preview your app, click or tap the button that you added, and then close Preview.
        The Weather field of the first record in Cities is replaced with a blank, removing the
        "Rainy" that was there previously.
        The label shows true because the Weather field no longer contains a value.
           Coalesce
                                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
             Formula                     Description                                                                  Result
             Coalesce( Blank(), 1 )      Tests the return value from the Blank function, which always returns a       1
                                         blank value. Because the first argument is blank, evaluation continues
                                         with the next argument until a non-blank value and non-empty string
                                         is found.
             Coalesce( "", "2" )         Tests the first argument which is an empty string. Because the first         2
                                         argument is an empty string, evaluation continues with the next
                                         argument until a non-blank value and non-empty string is found.
             Coalesce( Blank(), "",      Coalesce starts at the beginning of the argument list and evaluates          3
             Blank(), "", "3", "4" )     each argument in turn until a non-blank value and non-empty string
                                         is found. In this case, the first four arguments all return blank or an
                                         empty string, so evaluation continues to the fifth argument. The fifth
                                         argument is non-blank and non-empty string, so evaluation stops
                                         here. The value of the fifth argument is returned, and the sixth
                                         argument isn't evaluated.
             Coalesce( "" )              Tests the first argument which is an empty string. Because the first         blank
                                         argument is an empty string, and there are no more arguments, the
                                         function returns blank.
           IsBlank
               1. Create an app from scratch, add a text-input control, and name it FirstName.
               2. Add a label, and set its Text property to this formula:
                    Power Fx
                     If( IsBlank( FirstName.Text ), "First Name is a required field." )
                 By default, the Text property of a text-input control is set to "Text input". Because the
                 property contains a value, it isn't blank, and the label doesn't display any message.
               3. Remove all the characters from the text-input control, including any spaces.
                 Because the Text property no longer contains any characters, it's an empty string, and
                 IsBlank( FirstName.Text ) will be true. The required field message is displayed.
           For information about how to perform validation by using other tools, see the Validate
           function and working with data sources.
           Other examples:
                                                                                                         ﾉ
                                                                                                             Expand table
            Formula                     Description                                                                  Result
            IsBlank( Blank() )          Tests the return value from the Blank function, which always returns a       true
                                        blank value.
            IsBlank( "" )               A string that contains no characters.                                        true
            IsBlank( "Hello" )          A string that contains one or more characters.                               false
            IsBlank( AnyCollection      Because the collection exists, it isn't blank, even if it doesn't contain    false
            )                           any records. To check for an empty collection, use IsEmpty instead.
            IsBlank( Mid( "Hello",      The starting character for Mid is beyond the end of the string. The          true
            17, 2 ) )                   result is an empty string.
            IsBlank( If( false, false   An If function with no ElseResult. Because the condition is always false,    true
            ) )                         this If always returns blank.
           IsEmpty
               1. Create an app from scratch, and add a Button control.
               2. Set the button's OnSelect property to this formula:
                 Collect( IceCream, { Flavor: "Strawberry", Quantity: 300 }, { Flavor: "Chocolate",
                 Quantity: 100 } )
               3. Preview your app, click or tap the button that you added, and then close Preview.
                 A collection named IceCream is created and contains this data:
                 This collection has two records and isn't empty. IsEmpty( IceCream ) returns false, and
                 CountRows( IceCream ) returns 2.
               4. Add a second button, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
                 Clear( IceCream )
               5. Preview your app, click or tap the second button, and then close Preview.
                   The collection is now empty:
                   The Clear function removes all the records from a collection, resulting in an empty
                   collection. IsEmpty( IceCream ) returns true, and CountRows( IceCream ) returns 0.
            You can also use IsEmpty to test whether a calculated table is empty, as these examples show:
                                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
             Formula                       Description                                                                        Result
             IsEmpty( [ 1, 2, 3 ] )        The single-column table contains three records and, therefore, isn't               false
                                           empty.
             IsEmpty( [ ] )                The single-column table contains no records and is empty.                          true
             IsEmpty( Filter(              The single-column table contains no values that are greater than 5.                true
             [ 1, 2, 3 ], Value > 5 ) )    The result from the filter doesn't contain any records and is empty.
             Calendar and Clock functions
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps        Power Pages
             Retrieves calendar and clock information about the current locale.
             Description
             The Calendar and Clock functions are a set of functions that retrieve information about
             the current locale.
             You can use these functions to display dates and times in the language of the current
             user. The single-column tables returned by Calendar and Clock functions can be used
             directly with the Items property of Dropdown and Listbox controls.
                                                                                       ﾉ
                                                                                           Expand table
              Function                   Description
              Calendar.MonthsLong()      Single-column table containing the full names of each month,
                                         starting with "January".
              Calendar.MonthsShort()     Single-column table containing the abbreviated names of each
                                         month, starting with "Jan" for January.
              Calendar.WeekdaysLong()    Single-column table containing the full names of each weekday,
                                         starting with "Sunday".
              Calendar.WeekdaysShort()   Single-column table containing the full names of each weekday,
                                         starting with "Sun" for Sunday.
              Clock.AmPm()               Single-column table containing the long uppercase "AM" and "PM"
                                         designations. If the language uses a 24-hour clock, the table will be
                                         empty.
              Clock.AmPmShort()          Single-column table containing the short uppercase "A" and "P"
                                         designations. If the language uses a 24-hour clock, the table will be
                                         empty.
              Clock.IsClock24()          Boolean indicating if a 24-hour clock is used in this locale.
             Use the Text function to format date and time values using this same information. The
             Language function returns the current language and region code.
               Syntax
               Calendar.MonthsLong()
               Calendar.MonthsShort()
               Calendar.WeekdaysLong()
               Calendar.WeekdaysShort()
               Clock.AmPm()
               Clock.AmPmShort()
               Clock.IsClock24()
               Examples
                  1. Insert a Dropdown control.
                  2. Set the formula for the Items property to:
                           Calendar.MonthsLong()
                  3. Users of your app can now select a month in their own language. MonthsLong can
                     be replaced with any of the single-column tables that are returned by Calendar to
                     create weekday and time selectors.
               In the United States, with Language returning "en-US", the following is returned by the
               Calendar functions:
                                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
                Formula                       Description                         Result
                Calendar.MonthsLong()         The return value contains the       [ "January", "February", "March",
                                              full name of each month,            "April", "May", "June", "July",
                                              starting with "January".            "August", "September",
                                                                                  "October", "November",
                                                                                  "December" ]
                Calendar.MonthsShort()        The return value contains the       [ "Jan", "Feb", "Mar", "Apr",
                                              abbreviated name of each            "May", "Jun", "Jul", "Aug", "Sep",
                                              month, starting with "January".     "Oct", "Nov", "Dec" ]
                Calendar.WeekdaysLong()       The return value contains the       [ "Sunday", "Monday", "Tuesday",
                                              full name of each day, starting     "Wednesday", "Thursday",
              Formula                    Description                    Result
                                         with "Sunday".                 "Friday", "Saturday" ]
              Calendar.WeekdaysShort()   The return value contains the  [ "Sun", "Mon", "Tue", "Wed",
                                         abbreviated name of each day,  "Thu", "Fri", "Sat" ]
                                         starting with "Sunday".
              Clock.AmPm()               This language uses a 12-hour   [ "AM", "PM" ]
                                         clock. The return value contains
                                         the uppercase versions of the
                                         full AM and PM designations.
              Clock.AmPmShort()          This language uses a 12-hour   [ "A", "P" ]
                                         clock. The return value contains
                                         the uppercase versions of the
                                         short AM and PM designations.
              Clock.IsClock24()          This language uses a 12-hour   false
                                         clock.
             Feedback
             Was this page helpful? Yes      No
             Provide product feedback
           Char and UniChar functions
           Article • 04/20/2025
                                                                                                     ﾉ
                                                                                                         Expand table
            Function    Applies to
            Char             Canvas apps        Cards      Copilot Studio      Desktop flows       Dataverse formula
                        columns        Model-driven apps       Power Platform CLI       Dataverse functions 
                        Power Pages
            UniChar          Canvas apps        Cards      Copilot Studio      Desktop flows       Model-driven apps
                             Power Platform CLI       Dataverse functions       Power Pages
           Translates a character code into a string.
           Description
           The Char function translates a number into a string with the corresponding ASCII character.
           The UniChar function translates a number into a string with the corresponding Unicode
           character.
           If you pass a single number, the return value is the translated string version of that number. If
           you pass a single-column table that contains numbers, the return value is a single-column
           table of strings in a Value column. If you have a multi-column table, you can shape it into a
           single-column table, as working with tables describes.
           Syntax
           Char( CharacterCode )
                 CharacterCode - Required. ASCII character code to translate.
           Char( CharacterCodeTable )
                 CharacterCodeTable - Required. Table of ASCII character codes to translate.
           UniChar( UnicodeCode )
                 UnicodeCode - Required. Unicode character code to translate.
           UniChar( UnicodeCodeTable )
                 UnicodeCodeTable - Required. Table of Unicode character codes to translate.
          Examples
          Single number
                                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
            Formula               Description                                                                Result
            Char( 65 )            Returns the character that corresponds to ASCII code 65.                   "A"
            Char( 105 )           Returns the character that corresponds to ASCII code 105.                  "i"
            Char( 35 )            Returns the character that corresponds to ASCII code 35.                   "#"
            UniChar( 35 )         Returns the character that corresponds to Unicode code 35.                 "#"
            UniChar( 233 )        Returns the character that corresponds to Unicode code 233.                "á"
            UniChar( 9829 )       Returns the character that corresponds to Unicode code 9829.               "♥"
          Single-column table
          The example in this section converts numbers from a single-column table.
                                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
            Formula                            Result
            Char( [ 65, 105 ] )                A single-column table with a Value column containing the following
                                               values: "A", "i"
            Char( [ 35, 52 ] )                 A single-column table with a Value column containing the following
                                               values: "#", "4"
            UniChar( [ 71, 97, 114, 231,       A single-column table with a Value column containing the following
            111, 110 ] )                       values: "G", "a", "r", "ç", "o", "n"
          Display a character map
              1. On an empty screen in a tablet app, add a Gallery control with a Blank Horizontal layout,
                and then set these properties:
                       Items: Sequence( 8, 0, 16 ) As HighNibble
                       Width: Parent.Width
                       Height: Parent.Height
         TemplateSize: Parent.Width / 8
         TemplatePadding: 0
         X: 0
         Y: 0
      2. Inside that gallery, add a Gallery control with a Blank Vertical layout, and then set these
       properties:
         Items: Sequence( 16, HighNibble.Value ) As FullCode
         Width: Parent.Width / 8
         Height: Parent.Height
         TemplateSize: Parent.Height / 16
         TemplatePadding: 0
         X: 0
         Y: 0
      3. Inside the second (vertical) gallery, add a Label control, and set these properties:
         Text: FullCode.Value
         Width: Parent.Width / 2
         X: 0
         Y: 0
         Align: Center
         FontWeight: Bold
         Size: 24
      4. Inside the second (vertical) gallery, add another Label control, and set these properties:
         Text: Char( FullCode.Value )
         Width: Parent.Width / 2
         X: Parent.Width / 2
         Y: 0
         FontWeight: Bold
         Size: 24
    You've created a chart of the first 128 ASCII characters. Characters that appear as a small
    square can't be printed.
    If you want to see how FullCode.Value gets its values. Let's begin with the outer horizontal
    gallery. Its Items property uses the Sequence function to create 8 columns, starting with 0 with
    increments of 16:
    Nested within this gallery is another vertical gallery. Its Items property fills in the gap left by
    the increment of 16 from the outer gallery:
     To show the extended ASCII characters, it is a simple matter of changing the starting point for
     the chart, set in the Sequence function for the outer gallery:
     Sequence( 8, 128, 16 ) As HighNibble
     Finally, to show the characters in a different font, set the Font property of the second label to a
     value such as 'Dancing Script'.
             Choices function
             Article • 03/22/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps
             Returns a table of the possible values for a lookup column.
             Description
             The Choices function returns a table of the possible values for a lookup column.
             Use the Choices function to provide a list of choices for your user to select from. This
             function is commonly used with the Combo box control in edit forms.
             For a lookup, the table that Choices returns matches the foreign table that's associated
             with the lookup. By using Choices, you eliminate the need to add the foreign table as an
             additional data source. Choices returns all columns of the foreign table.
             Because Choices returns a table, you can use Filter, Sort, AddColumns, and all the other
             table-manipulation functions to filter, sort, and shape the table.
             At this time, you can't delegate Choices. If this limitation poses a problem in your app,
             add the foreign table as a data source, and use it directly.
             Choices doesn't require column names to be strings and enclosed in double quotes,
             unlike the ShowColumns, Search, and other table functions. Provide the formula as if
             you were referencing the column directly.
             Column references must be direct to the data source. For example, if the data source is
             Accounts and the lookup is SLA, the column reference would be Accounts.SLA. The
             reference can't pass through a function, a variable, or a control. Furthering this example,
             if Accounts is fed to a Gallery control, use the formula Gallery.Selected.SLA to reference
             the SLA for the selected account. However, this reference has passed through a control,
             so it can't be passed to the Columns function - you must still use Accounts.SLA.
             At this time, you can use lookup columns only with SharePoint and Microsoft Dataverse.
             Syntax
             Choices( column-reference [, text-filter ] )
         column-reference - Required. A lookup column of a data source. Don't enclose the
         column name in double quotes. The reference must be directly to the column of
         the data source and not pass through a function or a control.
         text-filter - Optional. Filters the list of choices by only returning choices that start
         with the text specified in text-filter. If an empty string is specified, all choices will be
         returned.
      Examples
      Choices for a lookup
        1. Create a database in Dataverse, and select the Include sample apps and data box.
         Many tables, such as Accounts, are created.
         Note: Table names are singular on make.powerapps.com and plural in Power Apps
         Studio.
         The Accounts table has a Primary Contact column, which is a lookup to the
         Contacts table.
        For each account, a contact is designated as the primary contact, or the primary
        contact is blank.
       2. Generate an app from the Accounts table.
       3. In the list of screens and controls near the left edge, scroll down until EditScreen1
        appears, and then select EditForm1 just under it.
       4. On the Properties tab of the right pane, select Edit fields.
       5. In the Fields pane, select Add field.
       6. Search for the Primary Contact field, select its check box, and then select Add.
        The Primary Contact field appears at the bottom of the form. If the field shows an
        error, select Data sources on the View tab, select the ellipsis (...) for the Accounts
        data source, and then select Refresh.
       7. (optional) Drag the Primary Contact field from the bottom to the top of the list of
        fields.
       8. In the card for Primary Contact, select the Combo box control.
        The Items property of that control is set to a formula that identifies the column by
        either its display name, as in the first example, or its logical name, as in the second
        example:
           Choices( Accounts.'Primary Contact' )
           Choices( Accounts.primarycontactid )
       9. For illustration purposes, we can view the complete table returned by the Choices
        function in a Data table control. On the Home tab, select New screen, and then
        select Blank.
       10. On the Insert tab, select Data table.
       11. Set the Items property of the Data table control to this formula:
        Choices( Accounts.'Primary Contact' )
       12. In the middle of the Data table control, select the link that starts Choose the
        fields..., and then select the check boxes for the field or fields that you want to
        show (for example, firstname and lastname).
             Collect, Clear, and ClearCollect functions
             Article • 04/11/2024
             Creates and clears collections and adds records to any data source.
             Collect
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Cards      Dataverse low-code plug-ins        Power
             Platform CLI      Desktop flows
             The Collect function adds records to a data source. The items to be added can be:
                   A single value: The value is placed in the Value field of a new record. All other
                   properties are left blank.
                   A record: Each named property is placed in the corresponding property of a new
                   record. All other properties are left blank.
                   A table: Each record of the table is added as a separate record of the data source
                   as described above. The table isn't added as a nested table to a record. To do this,
                   wrap the table in a record first.
             When used with a collection, additional columns will be created as needed. The columns
             for other data sources are fixed by the data source and new columns can't be added.
             If the data source doesn't already exist, a collection is created.
             Collections are sometimes used to hold global variables or make a temporary copy of a
             data source. Canvas apps are based on formulas that automatically recalculate as the
             user interacts with an app. Collections don't enjoy this benefit and their use can make
             your app harder to create and understand. Before using a collection in this manner,
             review working with variables.
             You can also use the Patch function to create records in a data source.
             Collect returns the modified data source as a table. Collect can only be used in a
             behavior formula.
             Clear
             Applies to:      Canvas apps
             The Clear function deletes all the records of a collection. The columns of the collection
             will remain.
             Note that Clear only operates on collections and not other data sources. You can use
             RemoveIf( DataSource, true ) for this purpose. Use caution as this will remove all
             records from the data source's storage and can affect other users.
             You can use the Remove function to selectively remove records.
             Clear has no return value. It can only be used in a behavior formula.
             ClearCollect
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps
             The ClearCollect function deletes all the records from a collection. And then adds a
             different set of records to the same collection. With a single function, ClearCollect offers
             the combination of Clear and then Collect.
             ClearCollect returns the modified collection as a table. ClearCollect can only be used in
             a behavior formula.
             Delegation
             When used with a data source, these functions can't be delegated. Only the first portion
             of the data source will be retrieved and then the function applied. The result may not
             represent the complete story. A warning may appear at authoring time to remind you of
             this limitation and to suggest switching to delegable alternatives where possible. For
             more information, see the delegation overview.
             Syntax
             Collect( DataSource, Item, ... )
                   DataSource – Required. The data source that you want to add data to. If it doesn't
                   already exist, a new collection is created.
                   Item(s) - Required. One or more records or tables to add to the data source.
             Clear( Collection )
                   Collection – Required. The collection that you want to clear.
             ClearCollect( Collection, Item, ... )
                   Collection – Required. The collection that you want to clear and then add data to.
                   Item(s) - Required. One or more records or tables to add to the data source.
               Examples
               Clearing and adding records to a data source
               In these examples, you'll erase and add to a collection that's named IceCream. The data
               source begins with these contents:
                                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
                Formula                                             Description                      Result
                ClearCollect( IceCream,                             Clears all data from the
                { Flavor: "Strawberry", Quantity: 300 } )           IceCream collection and then
                                                                    adds a record that includes a
                                                                                                     The IceCream
                                                                    quantity of strawberry ice
                                                                                                     collection has
                                                                    cream.
                                                                                                     also been
                                                                                                     modified.
                Collect( IceCream,                                  Adds two records to the
                { Flavor: "Pistachio", Quantity: 40 },              IceCream collection that
                { Flavor: "Orange", Quantity: 200 } )               includes a quantity of
                                                                    pistachio and orange ice
                                                                    cream.                           The IceCream
                                                                                                     collection has
                                                                                                     also been
                                                                                                     modified.
                Clear( IceCream )                                   Removes all records from the
                                                                    IceCream collection.
                                                                                                     The IceCream
                                                                                                     collection has
                                                                                                     also been
                                                                                                     modified.
               For step-by-step examples of how to create a collection, see Create and update a
               collection.
               Records and tables
               These examples examine how record and table arguments to Collect and ClearCollect
               are handled.
                                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
                Formula                                          Description                           Result
                ClearCollect( IceCream,                          Clear all data and then adds two
                { Flavor: "Chocolate", Quantity: 100 },          records to the IceCream
                { Flavor: "Vanilla", Quantity: 200 } )           collection that includes a quantity
                                                                 of chocolate and vanilla ice cream.   The
                                                                 The records to be added are           IceCream
                                                                 provided as individual arguments      collection has
                                                                 to the function.                      also been
                                                                                                       modified.
                ClearCollect( IceCream, Table(                   Same as the previous example
                { Flavor: "Chocolate", Quantity: 100 },          except that the records are
                { Flavor: "Vanilla", Quantity: 200 } ) )         combined in a table and passed in
                                                                 through a single argument. The        The
                                                                 contents of the table are extracted   IceCream
                                                                 record by record before being         collection has
                                                                 added to the IceCream collection.     also been
                                                                                                       modified.
                ClearCollect( IceCream,                          Same as the previous example
                { MyFavorites: Table(                            except that the table is wrapped
                { Flavor: "Chocolate", Quantity: 100 },          in a record. The records of the
                { Flavor: "Vanilla", Quantity: 200 } ) } )       table aren't extracted and instead
                                                                 the entire table is added as a cell   The
                                                                 of the record.                        IceCream
                                                                                                       collection has
                                                                                                       also been
                                                                                                       modified.
             Collect, Clear, and ClearCollect functions
             Article • 04/11/2024
             Creates and clears collections and adds records to any data source.
             Collect
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Cards      Dataverse low-code plug-ins        Power
             Platform CLI      Desktop flows
             The Collect function adds records to a data source. The items to be added can be:
                   A single value: The value is placed in the Value field of a new record. All other
                   properties are left blank.
                   A record: Each named property is placed in the corresponding property of a new
                   record. All other properties are left blank.
                   A table: Each record of the table is added as a separate record of the data source
                   as described above. The table isn't added as a nested table to a record. To do this,
                   wrap the table in a record first.
             When used with a collection, additional columns will be created as needed. The columns
             for other data sources are fixed by the data source and new columns can't be added.
             If the data source doesn't already exist, a collection is created.
             Collections are sometimes used to hold global variables or make a temporary copy of a
             data source. Canvas apps are based on formulas that automatically recalculate as the
             user interacts with an app. Collections don't enjoy this benefit and their use can make
             your app harder to create and understand. Before using a collection in this manner,
             review working with variables.
             You can also use the Patch function to create records in a data source.
             Collect returns the modified data source as a table. Collect can only be used in a
             behavior formula.
             Clear
             Applies to:      Canvas apps
             The Clear function deletes all the records of a collection. The columns of the collection
             will remain.
             Note that Clear only operates on collections and not other data sources. You can use
             RemoveIf( DataSource, true ) for this purpose. Use caution as this will remove all
             records from the data source's storage and can affect other users.
             You can use the Remove function to selectively remove records.
             Clear has no return value. It can only be used in a behavior formula.
             ClearCollect
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps
             The ClearCollect function deletes all the records from a collection. And then adds a
             different set of records to the same collection. With a single function, ClearCollect offers
             the combination of Clear and then Collect.
             ClearCollect returns the modified collection as a table. ClearCollect can only be used in
             a behavior formula.
             Delegation
             When used with a data source, these functions can't be delegated. Only the first portion
             of the data source will be retrieved and then the function applied. The result may not
             represent the complete story. A warning may appear at authoring time to remind you of
             this limitation and to suggest switching to delegable alternatives where possible. For
             more information, see the delegation overview.
             Syntax
             Collect( DataSource, Item, ... )
                   DataSource – Required. The data source that you want to add data to. If it doesn't
                   already exist, a new collection is created.
                   Item(s) - Required. One or more records or tables to add to the data source.
             Clear( Collection )
                   Collection – Required. The collection that you want to clear.
             ClearCollect( Collection, Item, ... )
                   Collection – Required. The collection that you want to clear and then add data to.
                   Item(s) - Required. One or more records or tables to add to the data source.
               Examples
               Clearing and adding records to a data source
               In these examples, you'll erase and add to a collection that's named IceCream. The data
               source begins with these contents:
                                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
                Formula                                             Description                      Result
                ClearCollect( IceCream,                             Clears all data from the
                { Flavor: "Strawberry", Quantity: 300 } )           IceCream collection and then
                                                                    adds a record that includes a
                                                                                                     The IceCream
                                                                    quantity of strawberry ice
                                                                                                     collection has
                                                                    cream.
                                                                                                     also been
                                                                                                     modified.
                Collect( IceCream,                                  Adds two records to the
                { Flavor: "Pistachio", Quantity: 40 },              IceCream collection that
                { Flavor: "Orange", Quantity: 200 } )               includes a quantity of
                                                                    pistachio and orange ice
                                                                    cream.                           The IceCream
                                                                                                     collection has
                                                                                                     also been
                                                                                                     modified.
                Clear( IceCream )                                   Removes all records from the
                                                                    IceCream collection.
                                                                                                     The IceCream
                                                                                                     collection has
                                                                                                     also been
                                                                                                     modified.
               For step-by-step examples of how to create a collection, see Create and update a
               collection.
               Records and tables
               These examples examine how record and table arguments to Collect and ClearCollect
               are handled.
                                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
                Formula                                          Description                           Result
                ClearCollect( IceCream,                          Clear all data and then adds two
                { Flavor: "Chocolate", Quantity: 100 },          records to the IceCream
                { Flavor: "Vanilla", Quantity: 200 } )           collection that includes a quantity
                                                                 of chocolate and vanilla ice cream.   The
                                                                 The records to be added are           IceCream
                                                                 provided as individual arguments      collection has
                                                                 to the function.                      also been
                                                                                                       modified.
                ClearCollect( IceCream, Table(                   Same as the previous example
                { Flavor: "Chocolate", Quantity: 100 },          except that the records are
                { Flavor: "Vanilla", Quantity: 200 } ) )         combined in a table and passed in
                                                                 through a single argument. The        The
                                                                 contents of the table are extracted   IceCream
                                                                 record by record before being         collection has
                                                                 added to the IceCream collection.     also been
                                                                                                       modified.
                ClearCollect( IceCream,                          Same as the previous example
                { MyFavorites: Table(                            except that the table is wrapped
                { Flavor: "Chocolate", Quantity: 100 },          in a record. The records of the
                { Flavor: "Vanilla", Quantity: 200 } ) } )       table aren't extracted and instead
                                                                 the entire table is added as a cell   The
                                                                 of the record.                        IceCream
                                                                                                       collection has
                                                                                                       also been
                                                                                                       modified.
             Calendar and Clock functions
             Article • 06/10/2024
             Applies to:      Canvas apps       Model-driven apps        Power Pages
             Retrieves calendar and clock information about the current locale.
             Description
             The Calendar and Clock functions are a set of functions that retrieve information about
             the current locale.
             You can use these functions to display dates and times in the language of the current
             user. The single-column tables returned by Calendar and Clock functions can be used
             directly with the Items property of Dropdown and Listbox controls.
                                                                                       ﾉ
                                                                                           Expand table
              Function                   Description
              Calendar.MonthsLong()      Single-column table containing the full names of each month,
                                         starting with "January".
              Calendar.MonthsShort()     Single-column table containing the abbreviated names of each
                                         month, starting with "Jan" for January.
              Calendar.WeekdaysLong()    Single-column table containing the full names of each weekday,
                                         starting with "Sunday".
              Calendar.WeekdaysShort()   Single-column table containing the full names of each weekday,
                                         starting with "Sun" for Sunday.
              Clock.AmPm()               Single-column table containing the long uppercase "AM" and "PM"
                                         designations. If the language uses a 24-hour clock, the table will be
                                         empty.
              Clock.AmPmShort()          Single-column table containing the short uppercase "A" and "P"
                                         designations. If the language uses a 24-hour clock, the table will be
                                         empty.
              Clock.IsClock24()          Boolean indicating if a 24-hour clock is used in this locale.
             Use the Text function to format date and time values using this same information. The
             Language function returns the current language and region code.
               Syntax
               Calendar.MonthsLong()
               Calendar.MonthsShort()
               Calendar.WeekdaysLong()
               Calendar.WeekdaysShort()
               Clock.AmPm()
               Clock.AmPmShort()
               Clock.IsClock24()
               Examples
                  1. Insert a Dropdown control.
                  2. Set the formula for the Items property to:
                           Calendar.MonthsLong()
                  3. Users of your app can now select a month in their own language. MonthsLong can
                     be replaced with any of the single-column tables that are returned by Calendar to
                     create weekday and time selectors.
               In the United States, with Language returning "en-US", the following is returned by the
               Calendar functions:
                                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
                Formula                       Description                         Result
                Calendar.MonthsLong()         The return value contains the       [ "January", "February", "March",
                                              full name of each month,            "April", "May", "June", "July",
                                              starting with "January".            "August", "September",
                                                                                  "October", "November",
                                                                                  "December" ]
                Calendar.MonthsShort()        The return value contains the       [ "Jan", "Feb", "Mar", "Apr",
                                              abbreviated name of each            "May", "Jun", "Jul", "Aug", "Sep",
                                              month, starting with "January".     "Oct", "Nov", "Dec" ]
                Calendar.WeekdaysLong()       The return value contains the       [ "Sunday", "Monday", "Tuesday",
                                              full name of each day, starting     "Wednesday", "Thursday",
              Formula                    Description                    Result
                                         with "Sunday".                 "Friday", "Saturday" ]
              Calendar.WeekdaysShort()   The return value contains the  [ "Sun", "Mon", "Tue", "Wed",
                                         abbreviated name of each day,  "Thu", "Fri", "Sat" ]
                                         starting with "Sunday".
              Clock.AmPm()               This language uses a 12-hour   [ "AM", "PM" ]
                                         clock. The return value contains
                                         the uppercase versions of the
                                         full AM and PM designations.
              Clock.AmPmShort()          This language uses a 12-hour   [ "A", "P" ]
                                         clock. The return value contains
                                         the uppercase versions of the
                                         short AM and PM designations.
              Clock.IsClock24()          This language uses a 12-hour   false
                                         clock.
             Feedback
             Was this page helpful? Yes      No
             Provide product feedback
         Blank, Coalesce, IsBlank, and IsEmpty
         functions
         06/19/2025
                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
           Functions  Applies to
           Blank           Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Dataverse formula
                      columns      Model-driven apps    Power Platform CLI    Dataverse functions
           Coalesce        Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Model-driven apps
           IsEmpty         Power Platform CLI   Dataverse functions   Power Pages
           IsBlank         Canvas apps     Cards    Copilot Studio    Desktop flows    Dataverse formula
                      columns      Model-driven apps    Power Platform CLI    Dataverse functions 
                      Power Pages
         Tests whether a value is blank or a table contains no records, and provides a way to create
         blank values.
         Overview
         Blank is a placeholder for "no value" or "unknown value." For example, a Combo box control's
         Selected property is blank if the user hasn't made a selection. Many data sources can store and
         return NULL values, which are represented in Power Apps as blank.
         Any property or calculated value in Power Apps can be blank. For example, a Boolean value
         normally has one of two values: true or false. But in addition to these two, it can also be blank
         indicating that the state is not known. This is similar to Microsoft Excel, where a worksheet cell
         starts out as blank with no contents but can hold the values TRUE or FALSE (among others). At
         any time, the contents of the cell can again be cleared, returning it to a blank state.
         Empty string refers to a string that contains no characters. The Len function returns zero for
         such a string and it can be written in a formulas as two double quotes with nothing in between
          "". Some controls and data sources use an empty string to indicate a "no value" condition. To
         simplify app creation, the IsBlank and Coalesce functions test for both blank values or empty
         strings.
         In the context of the IsEmpty function, empty is specific to tables that contain no records. The
         table structure may be intact, complete with column names, but no data is in the table. A table
     may start as empty, take on records and no longer be empty, and then have the records
     removed and again be empty.
     Blank
     The Blank function returns a blank value. Use this to store a NULL value in a data source that
     supports these values, effectively removing any value from the field.
     IsBlank
     The IsBlank function tests for a blank value or an empty string. The test includes empty strings
     to ease app creation since some data sources and controls use an empty string when there is
     no value present. To test specifically for a blank value use if( Value = Blank(), ... instead of
     IsBlank. The IsBlank function considers empty tables as not blank, and IsEmpty should be used
     to test a table.
     When enabling error handling for existing apps, consider replacing IsBlank with IsBlankOrError
     to preserve existing app behavior. Prior to the addition of error handling, a blank value was
     used to represent both null values from databases and error values. Error handling separates
     these two interpretations of blank which could change the behavior of existing apps that
     continue to use IsBlank.
     The return value for IsBlank is a boolean true or false.
     Coalesce
     The Coalesce function evaluates its arguments in order and returns the first value that isn't
     blank or an empty string. Use this function to replace a blank value or empty string with a
     different value but leave non-blank and non-empty string values unchanged. If all the
     arguments are blank or empty strings then the function returns blank, making Coalesce a good
     way to convert empty strings to blank values.
     Coalesce( value1, value2 ) is the more concise equivalent of If( Not IsBlank( value1 ),
     value1, Not IsBlank( value2 ), value2 ) and doesn't require value1 and value2 to be
     evaluated twice. The If function returns blank if there is no "else" formula as is the case here.
     All arguments to Coalesce must be of the same type; for example, you can't mix numbers with
     text strings. The return value from Coalesce is of this common type.
     IsEmpty
      The IsEmpty function tests whether a table contains any records. It's equivalent to using the
      CountRows function and checking for zero. You can check for data-source errors by combining
      IsEmpty with the Errors function.
      The return value for IsEmpty is a Boolean true or false.
      Syntax
      Blank()
      Coalesce( Value1 [, Value2, ... ] )
         Value(s) – Required. Values to test. Each value is evaluated in order until a value that is not
         blank and not an empty string is found. Values after this point are not evaluated.
      IsBlank( Value )
         Value – Required. Value to test for a blank value or empty string.
      IsEmpty( Table )
         Table - Required. Table to test for records.
      Examples
      Blank
        1. Create an app from scratch, and add a Button control.
        2. Set the button's OnSelect property to this formula:
          Power Fx
           ClearCollect( Cities, { Name: "Seattle", Weather: "Rainy" } )
        3. Preview your app, click or tap the button that you added, and then close Preview.
        4. On the File menu, click or tap Collections.
         The Cities collection appears, showing one record with "Seattle" and "Rainy":
       5. Click or tap the back arrow to return to the default workspace.
       6. Add a Label control, and set its Text property to this formula:
          Power Fx
          IsBlank( First( Cities ).Weather )
        The label shows false because the Weather field contains a value ("Rainy").
       7. Add a second button, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
          Power Fx
          Patch( Cities, First( Cities ), { Weather: Blank() } )
       8. Preview your app, click or tap the button that you added, and then close Preview.
        The Weather field of the first record in Cities is replaced with a blank, removing the
        "Rainy" that was there previously.
        The label shows true because the Weather field no longer contains a value.
           Coalesce
                                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
             Formula                     Description                                                                  Result
             Coalesce( Blank(), 1 )      Tests the return value from the Blank function, which always returns a       1
                                         blank value. Because the first argument is blank, evaluation continues
                                         with the next argument until a non-blank value and non-empty string
                                         is found.
             Coalesce( "", "2" )         Tests the first argument which is an empty string. Because the first         2
                                         argument is an empty string, evaluation continues with the next
                                         argument until a non-blank value and non-empty string is found.
             Coalesce( Blank(), "",      Coalesce starts at the beginning of the argument list and evaluates          3
             Blank(), "", "3", "4" )     each argument in turn until a non-blank value and non-empty string
                                         is found. In this case, the first four arguments all return blank or an
                                         empty string, so evaluation continues to the fifth argument. The fifth
                                         argument is non-blank and non-empty string, so evaluation stops
                                         here. The value of the fifth argument is returned, and the sixth
                                         argument isn't evaluated.
             Coalesce( "" )              Tests the first argument which is an empty string. Because the first         blank
                                         argument is an empty string, and there are no more arguments, the
                                         function returns blank.
           IsBlank
               1. Create an app from scratch, add a text-input control, and name it FirstName.
               2. Add a label, and set its Text property to this formula:
                    Power Fx
                     If( IsBlank( FirstName.Text ), "First Name is a required field." )
                 By default, the Text property of a text-input control is set to "Text input". Because the
                 property contains a value, it isn't blank, and the label doesn't display any message.
               3. Remove all the characters from the text-input control, including any spaces.
                 Because the Text property no longer contains any characters, it's an empty string, and
                 IsBlank( FirstName.Text ) will be true. The required field message is displayed.
           For information about how to perform validation by using other tools, see the Validate
           function and working with data sources.
           Other examples:
                                                                                                         ﾉ
                                                                                                             Expand table
            Formula                     Description                                                                  Result
            IsBlank( Blank() )          Tests the return value from the Blank function, which always returns a       true
                                        blank value.
            IsBlank( "" )               A string that contains no characters.                                        true
            IsBlank( "Hello" )          A string that contains one or more characters.                               false
            IsBlank( AnyCollection      Because the collection exists, it isn't blank, even if it doesn't contain    false
            )                           any records. To check for an empty collection, use IsEmpty instead.
            IsBlank( Mid( "Hello",      The starting character for Mid is beyond the end of the string. The          true
            17, 2 ) )                   result is an empty string.
            IsBlank( If( false, false   An If function with no ElseResult. Because the condition is always false,    true
            ) )                         this If always returns blank.
           IsEmpty
               1. Create an app from scratch, and add a Button control.
               2. Set the button's OnSelect property to this formula:
                 Collect( IceCream, { Flavor: "Strawberry", Quantity: 300 }, { Flavor: "Chocolate",
                 Quantity: 100 } )
               3. Preview your app, click or tap the button that you added, and then close Preview.
                 A collection named IceCream is created and contains this data:
                 This collection has two records and isn't empty. IsEmpty( IceCream ) returns false, and
                 CountRows( IceCream ) returns 2.
               4. Add a second button, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
                 Clear( IceCream )
               5. Preview your app, click or tap the second button, and then close Preview.
                   The collection is now empty:
                   The Clear function removes all the records from a collection, resulting in an empty
                   collection. IsEmpty( IceCream ) returns true, and CountRows( IceCream ) returns 0.
            You can also use IsEmpty to test whether a calculated table is empty, as these examples show:
                                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
             Formula                       Description                                                                        Result
             IsEmpty( [ 1, 2, 3 ] )        The single-column table contains three records and, therefore, isn't               false
                                           empty.
             IsEmpty( [ ] )                The single-column table contains no records and is empty.                          true
             IsEmpty( Filter(              The single-column table contains no values that are greater than 5.                true
             [ 1, 2, 3 ], Value > 5 ) )    The result from the filter doesn't contain any records and is empty.
