    Enable secure implicit connections for an existing app
    Open an existing app open for editing with implicitly shared connections already published:
      1. On the command bar, select Settings and search for "Secure".
      2. Update the feature switch appropriately to enable secure implicit connections.
      3. Save and publish the app.
    Unsharing
    Once you publish the app, follow these steps to verify that sharing works correctly:
       Check if connections are shared with co-owners. If you don't want an end-user to get a
       connection, then uncheck the Co-owner checkbox.
       To verify the feature works correctly, share the app with a different user who isn't an
       owner. Once you share the app, check the Connections list in the Dataverse tab in Power
       Apps  for that user. Verify that the user doesn't have a connection available.
       Open the Sharing panel to change the end-user's right to the connection. Choose the X
       to remove the user's access to the connection.
    Use apps with a new secure implicit connection
    When you republish and share your app, end-users don't have access to the connection but
    work with the hidden proxy connection. Users can't create a new app based on your original
    connection.
      Limitations
       1. All types of implicitly shared connections work, such as action and tabular.
       2. Server and database names are hidden in network traces but visible in the consent dialog.
         Column names aren't hidden.
       3. For tabular connectors, the feature only limits CRUD actions such as Get, Post, Put, or
         Delete. If you have permissions to Put, then you have access to Post.
       4. Action based connectors limit based on the specific API being used in the application.
       5. Warnings are still enabled in sharing. The warning around implicitly shared connections
         still warns while in preview. However, your connection with this feature is secure – despite
         the warning.
       6. Publishing to an entire tenant, as opposed to specific groups or individuals isn't
         supported.
       7. There's a known issue when importing an implicitly shared secure connection via a
         connection reference. The security isn't set properly in the target environment.
       8. There's a known issue importing a solution using a service principal, causing import
         failure. A workaround is to share the connection with the service principal.
      Windows Authentication
      This type of connection isn't secure because it doesn't rely on end-user authentication. Use
      Windows authentication when you need to connect to a data source that is on-premises. An
      example of this type of connection is to an on-premises server that has a SQL Server. The
      connection must go through a gateway. Since it goes through a gateway, the connector has
      access to all of the data on that data source. As a result, any information that you can access
      with the Windows credentials you supply is available to the connector. When you publish the
      application, you also publish the connection and make it available to your users. This behavior
      means that your end users can create applications by using this same connection and access
      the data on that machine. Connections to the data source are also Implicitly Shared with users
      that the app is shared with. This type of connection might be valid when your data source only
      lives on an on-premises server and the data on that source is freely shareable.
      Data sources in solutions
      Solutions help with application lifecycle management and offer other ways to manage the
      lifecycle of data sources. If a canvas app is in a solution, you can create connection references
      and environment variables to store information about the data sources. This setup makes it
      easy to change or reconnect data sources when you move solutions to different environments.
      Rename data sources in apps
     Learn how to rename data sources in an app, and understand the difference between tabular
     and action-based data sources. For more information, see Rename Power Apps action-based
     data sources.
     Connection consent dialog
     When users open an app that uses connectors for the first time, they see a connection consent
     dialog for the following purposes.
      1. To inform users about the data sources accessed by the app.
      2. To outline the actions a connector might or might not perform in an app. For example, for
        apps using the Office 365 Users connector:
        This app is able to:
         Read your full user profile
         Read the full profile of all users
        The app can't:
         Modify or delete any user-profile information
      1. To capture end-user consent to connect to the data sources that the app uses.
      2. To facilitate manual end-user authentication, when needed.
     For some connections, Power Platform can automatically authenticate a user to access a data
     source. However, if the automatic sign-in fails, this dialog prompts users to fix a connection by
     manually signing in. Power Platform can only attempt automatic sign-in for a connection when
     a data source preauthorizes Microsoft’s Azure API connections service principal, granting it
     permission to perform single sign-on for a user when a connection is created. For more
     information on single sign-on, see What is single sign-on (SSO)?
     For model-driven apps that use custom pages, when there are multiple custom pages in an
     app, the consent dialog asks for data permissions for all of the connectors in all the custom
     pages even if users don't open them.
     The following image is an example of the connection consent dialog for an app connecting to
     a SharePoint site.
       For select connectors, admins can suppress this dialog and consent on behalf of end users to
       connect to a data source. The following table explains which types of connectors the consent
       dialog might be suppressed for an app.
         ７ Note
         If an admin suppresses the consent dialog but the platform can’t perform single sign-on
         for an end-user, the dialog is presented to the user when they launch the app.
                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Connector type                                                       Consent dialog       Reference
                                                                                 suppressible?
            Microsoft connectors that support single sign-on (such as            Yes                  Power Apps
            SharePoint, Office 365 users)                                                             admin cmdlet
            Connector accessing a non-Microsoft, partner service, such as        No                   Not applicable
            Salesforce
            Custom connectors using OAuth with Microsoft Entra ID as the         Yes                  Manage
            identity provider. These custom connectors are built by                                   Connections
            organizations, and are only accessible by the users within the
            organization (for example, built by Contoso for only Contoso
            users)
          Microsoft Power Platform can only suppress the consent dialog for connections to data sources
          where all the following conditions are true:
              1. The data source doesn't require an explicit consent UI.
              2. The data source preauthorizes Microsoft’s Azure API connections service principal to
                enable single sign-on.
              3. An admin configures an app to suppress the consent for the preceding connections.
          Microsoft’s Azure API connections service principal preauthorization exists for Microsoft's first-
          party data sources. Custom applications registered in a Microsoft Entra tenant that are used by
          custom connectors might configure this preauthorization. An admin manages consent
          suppression on a per-app basis (as opposed to connector basis), so suppression is managed at
          the most granular app experience level. This level of granularity prevents consent suppression
          for an organization’s "approved apps" from inadvertently suppressing consent for apps that
          aren't approved or reviewed.
            Last updated on 01/13/2026
     Working with dynamic values
     06/21/2025
     When you use actions in Power Apps, you can encounter dynamic return values or input values
     for some actions. Previously, Power Apps ignored dynamic input fields, and they weren't visible
     in Power Fx expressions. Now, you work directly with these fields. Previously, when a return
     type was dynamic, Power Apps returned a Boolean value. Now, it returns a dynamic value
     instead.
       ７ Note
       If your Power Fx expressions rely on a Boolean return value from these functions, rewrite
       the formula and explicitly cast the dynamic value to a Boolean. Certain functions, like
       'IfError,' don't fully support dynamic values yet. If your expression uses one of these
       functions, see the note at the end of this article for workarounds.
     Passing in dynamic values as parameters
     Certain actions necessitate using a dynamic value as a parameter. If you have a Power Fx
     record, convert it to a dynamic value to pass it to the action.
     In the following example, the merge action on a Dataverse Account table requires several
     dynamic arguments. To prepare, define three variables to hold the TargetObject,
     SubordinateObject, and UpdateContextObject. Start by assigning the text string
     Microsoft.Dynamics.CRM.account to a variable, which you reuse throughout the example.
       Power Fx
       Set (OdataType, “Microsoft.Dynamics.CRM.account”);
     Then assign TargetObject a Power Fx record with the properties name, accountid, and
     @odata.type. Similarly, assign Power Fx records to the Subordinate and UpdateContext objects.
       Power Fx
       Set (TargetObject, {name: "Test 2", accountid: "145dc2ba-85a2-ed11-aado-
       0022482d76a5", '@odata.type': OdataType});
       Set (SubordinateObject, {name: FirstRecord.’Account name’, accountid: 
       FirstRecord.Account, ‘@odata.type’ : OdataType });
       Set (UpdateContextObject, {telephone1: FirstRecord.’Main Phone’, address1_city: 
       FirstRecord.’Address 1 : City’, ‘@odata.type’ : OdataType }); 
     Next, create three more variables to store the dynamic records after the conversion:
     TargetDynamicValue, SubordinateDynamicValue, and UpdateContextDynamicValue. To convert,
     use the ParseJSON(JSON()) function on the original variables. This action transforms the Power
     Fx records into dynamic values.
       Power Fx
       Set (TargetDynamicValue, ParseJSON(JSON(TargetObject)));
       Set (SubordinateDynamicValue, ParseJSON(JSON(SubordinateObject)));
       Set (UpdateContextDynamicValue, ParseJSON(JSON(UpdateContextObject)));
     Finally, call the merge action and pass in the necessary parameters for both dynamic and
     specific types:
       Power Fx
       Environment.Merge({Target: TargetDynamicValue, Subordinate: 
       SubordinateDynamicValue, UpdateContent: UpdateContextDynamicValue, 
       PerformParentingChecks: false  });
     Using dynamic values returned via an action
     If an Action based connector returns an object, you can access its properties directly, even if
     they don't have a type. But if you want to use a property for something specific in Power Apps,
     like labeling, cast it first.
     In this example, the httpRequest function returns a dynamic value that's already cast as a
     Boolean.
       Power Fx
       Set (response, Office365Groups.HttpRequest("/v1.0/me", "GET", ""));
     One of the properties in the response is displayName. It can be accessed, and cast, with a
     Power Fx expression like the following:
       Power Fx
       Text(response.displayName)
     Cast to the object Text to use it in a Power Apps label control.
     Working with Dynamic fields
     Action responses now capture dynamic output, and you can use the method described above
     to access these properties. You can also work with dynamic input fields.
     Consider the GetMessageDetails action in Microsoft Teams, which has a dynamic input body
     parameter. Previously, you couldn't view or specify this parameter. With the recent update, set
     a variable called body with the appropriate Power Fx record structure.
       Power Fx
       Set ( body, ParseJSON(JSON( {recipient: { groupID: “7f733b36-7c7f-4f4c-9699-
       0a7b7a2b3897”, channelID: “19: 085d522328fb4a439220641006f7f25@thread.tacv2”}})));
     Then, we can call the GetMessageDetails action and assign the response to the teamsResponse
     variable.
       Power Fx
       Set (teamsResponse, MicrosoftTeams.GetMessageDetails ( 1661365068558, “channel”, 
       body ));
     Converting formulas that return dynamic values
     that previously returned Boolean
     Power Fx takes a limited number of dynamic values so explicit conversion may be necessary for
     your formula. In particular, if your formula depends on a Boolean response then you need to
     convert. If you need to simply know if an error exists, you can use the IsError function:
       Power Fx
       If(
         IsError(Office365Outlook.CalendarDeleteItemV2("Calendar", 1)),
         Notify("An Outlook appointment could not be found or could not be deleted")
       )
     To access error information that is exclusively available through IfError, you must transform the
     dynamic value into a specific type using a conversion function such as Boolean, Text, or Value.
     These functions will produce an error if they are given one. The following example, illustrates
     this:
       Power Fx
      With({result: Office365Outlook.CalendarDeleteItemV2("Calendar", 1)},
      If( IsError(result),
        IfError(
          Boolean(result),  // any conversion function would do, such as Text, Value, …
          Notify("An Outlook appointment could not be found or could not be deleted: " & 
      FirstError.Message)
      ) ) )
       Manage expired tokens
       Article • 04/03/2025
       This article explains how tokens are managed to ensure apps continue to function
       smoothly when credentials change.
       API Hub handles connections differently for Power Apps, Logic App, and Power
       Automate. When you change your credentials, Power Apps automatically
       reauthenticates using a new token, while Logic Apps and Power Automate might run
       into issues because they use stored tokens that can become stale.
       Manage tokens in Power Apps
       When a connection is invoked from Power Apps, API Hub uses the OBO (on-behalf-of)
       token sent in the 'invoke' request from Power Apps. API Hub exchanges the OBO token
       for a token to the target service. The OBO token is generated and validated during each
       Power Apps session before invoking the connector.
       For example, if a user changes their password, all tokens are revoked. When Power
       Apps directly invokes the connection, it uses the new token in the 'invoke' request to
       proceed. The request to the connector succeeds without the user having to
       reauthenticate the connection.
       Manage tokens in Logic Apps and Power
       Automate
       When a connection is invoked from Logic Apps or Power Automate, API Hub uses the
       stored token in the connection to exchange it for a token to the target service.
       For example, changing passwords or enforcing an MFA policy revokes all tokens. A
       Logic Apps or Power Automate SSO (single sign-on) connection call fails during token
       exchange because the tokens aren't marked as broken, and the token stored in the
       connection is stale.
       Refresh tokens in Power Apps, Logic Apps, and
       Power Automate
       Power Apps automatically renews or reauthenticates any connection that is broken.
       However, connections aren't marked as broken when tokens are revoked. They're
              marked as broken when the token exchange on API Hub fails.
              Therefore, Logic Apps and Power Automate must first attempt to run the connector with
              expired tokens. This action causes the connection to be marked as broken. Once Power
              Apps encounters a broken connection, it refreshes its local cache of connections, and
              the connection is repaired.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Connect to Microsoft Dataverse
     06/21/2025
     Securely store your business data in Dataverse and build rich apps in Power Apps so users can
     manage that data. You can also integrate that data into solutions that include Power Automate,
     Power BI, and data from Dynamics 365.
     By default, the app connects to the current environment for Dataverse tables. If your app
     moves to another environment, the connector connects to data in the new environment. This
     behavior works well for an app that uses a single environment or follows an application
     lifecycle management (ALM) process for moving from development, to test, and then to
     production.
     When you add data from Dataverse, change the environment, and then select one or more
     tables. By default, the app connects to data in the current environment.
     If you select Change environment, specify a different environment to pull data from instead of,
     or in addition to, the current environment.
      The name of the selected environment appears under the tables list.
      Visibility and access
      When you select Change environment, you see a list of environments. Even if you see an
      environment in the list, the security roles in the environment control what you can do there.
      For example, if you don't have read privileges, you can't see the tables and records in the
      environment.
       ７ Note
       Connections listed in the app details pane outside of the app designer show connections
       that need user consent. Because native Dataverse connections used in the app don't need
       additional consent, a native connection isn't in that list.
      Power Apps data type mappings
         The Microsoft Dataverse connector is more robust than the Dynamics 365 connector and is
         approaching feature parity. The following table lists the data types in Power Apps and how
         they map to data types in Dataverse.
                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
          Power        Microsoft Dataverse
          Apps
          Choice       Choice, Yes/No
          DateTime     Date Time, Date and Time, Date Only
          Image        Image
          Number       Floating Point Number, Currency, Decimal Number, Duration, Language, TimeZone, Whole
                       Number
          Text         Email, Multiline Text, Phone, Text, Text Area, Ticker Symbol, URL
          Guid         Unique Identifier
         Power Apps delegable functions and operations
         for Dataverse
         These Power Apps operations, for a given data type, can be delegated to Dataverse for
         processing instead of processing locally within Power Apps.
                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                       Expand table
          Item                             Number [1]    Text [2]   Choice   DateTime [3]    Guid
          <, <=, >, >=                     Yes           Yes        No       Yes             -
          =, <>                            Yes           Yes        Yes      Yes             Yes
          And/Or/Not                       Yes           Yes        Yes      Yes             Yes
          CountRows [4] [5], CountIf [6]   Yes           Yes        Yes      Yes             Yes
          Filter                           Yes           Yes        Yes      Yes             Yes
          First [7]                        Yes           Yes        Yes      Yes             Yes
          In (membership) [8]              Yes           Yes        Yes      Yes             Yes
          In (substring)                   -             Yes        -        -               -
          Item                              Number [1]     Text [2]   Choice    DateTime [3]     Guid
          IsBlank [9]                       Yes            Yes        No        Yes              Yes
          Lookup                            Yes            Yes        Yes       Yes              Yes
          Search                            No             Yes        No        No               -
          Sort                              Yes            Yes        Yes       Yes              -
          SortByColumns                     Yes            Yes        Yes       Yes              -
          StartsWith                        -              Yes        -         -                -
          Sum, Min, Max, Avg [6]            Yes            -          -         No               -
          UpdateIf/RemoveIf [10]            Yes            -          -         No               -
         Notes
            1. Numeric with arithmetic expressions (for example, Filter(table, field + 10 > 100))
              aren't delegable. Language and TimeZone aren't delegable. Casting a column to a
              number isn't supported. If a value appears as a number in Power Apps but the backend
              data source isn't a simple number, such as currency, then it isn't delegated.
            2. Doesn't support Trim[Ends] or Len. Supports other functions like Left, Mid, Right, Upper,
              Lower, Replace, and Substitute. Also, casting such as Text(column) isn't supported for
              delegation.
            3. DateTime is delegable except for DateTime functions Now() and Today().
            4. CountRows on Dataverse uses a cached value. For non-cached values where the record
              count is under 50,000 records, use CountIf(table, True).
            5. For CountRows, ensure that users have appropriate permissions to get totals for the table.
            6. All aggregate functions are limited to a collection of 50,000 rows. If needed, use the Filter
              function to select 50,000 rows. Aggregate functions aren't supported on views.
            7. The FirstN function isn't supported.
            8. The In operator is subject to the 15-table query limit of Dataverse.
            9. Supports comparisons. For example, Filter(TableName, MyCol = Blank()).
           10. UpdateIf and RemoveIf work locally but simulate delegation to a limit of 500 or 2,000
              records. They successively bring down records beyond the nondelegation 500 or 2,000
              record limit. Records that meet the If condition are collected. Generally, a maximum of
              500 or 2,000 records are collected separately and then changed per execution. However,
              more records can be updated if the existing local data cache is large because the function
              can access more records for evaluation.
     Call Dataverse actions directly in Power Fx
     As part of the Power Fx language, you can now directly invoke a Dataverse action within a
     formula. Both unbound and bound actions are supported. Add a Power Fx Environment
     language object to your app to use Dataverse actions.
     You can work with dynamic fields for both inputs and outputs. For inputs, many Dataverse
     actions require a dynamic value as an argument. Pass these arguments by using ParseJSON to
     convert a Power Fx record into a dynamic value. For outputs, if an action returns dynamic
     values, just use dot notation to access object properties. Cast specific values for use in Power
     Apps, such as in a label.
     Before this feature, you often used Power Automate to call Dataverse directly. Calling
     Dataverse from Power Fx gives you significant performance benefits and is easier to use, so use
     this approach for direct transactional reads and updates. If your app uses Power Automate to
     call Dataverse actions, you see a banner suggesting you use this direct action approach
     instead.
     Working with dynamic fields isn't limited to Dataverse. This feature works with all types of
     connectors and provides basic ad hoc dynamic schema support.
       ７ Note
        1. DV actions aren't fully supported in Power Fx commanding (for any action call with
          parameters).
        2. Direct references to an entity or entity collections aren't supported.
        3. For parameters of object type that are nested two or more levels deep, Power Apps
          treats the second-level attributes as required.
     Enable access to Microsoft Dataverse actions
     For new apps, this feature is automatically enabled. For apps you created earlier, enable access
     to Dataverse actions.
     For older apps, open your canvas app for editing. Go to Settings > Upcoming features >
     Retired, and enable Dataverse actions.
     Add the Power Fx Environment language object to your app
    To use Dataverse actions in your Power Fx formulas, select Add data, search for Environment,
    and add it to your app.
    This step adds the Power Fx Environment language object to your app.
    Access Dataverse actions
    After you add the Power Fx Environment object to your app, access Dataverse actions by
    adding Environment to your formula and then using dot notation for the actions.
      Unbound Dataverse actions are at the same level as tables and need the parent scope of the
      Environment language object. All actions in your environment are available—both system and
      custom. Both bound and unbound actions are available. The two-level call limit is removed.
      For more details on how to use Dataverse actions in your formulas, see Working with dynamic
      values.
      Pass entity type arguments for bound and unbound actions
      To pass entity type arguments for Dataverse actions, set the entity type argument value to a
      variable. Make sure to fill in any missing values, such as *activityId. This step is important for
      entities that don't have defined types in the swagger.
       Power Fx
       Set(MyArgVar, {
         name: First(systemUser).name,
          Id: First(systemUser).Id
          ... })
      Rename, refresh, and use actions in other environments
      To rename an Environment, select the ellipses and then select "Rename". If you add a new
      Dataverse action in Dataverse and want Power Apps to see it, select "Refresh". To use an action
      in a different environment, change the environment, then search for 'Environment', select it,
      and add it to your app.
         Microsoft Dataverse and the improve
         data source experience
         Article • 01/24/2024
         Overview
         In May 2021, many features that were previously optional are now the default behavior
         for all new apps. This article provides guidance to users who developed an app before
         the introduction of new features, on how to upgrade their app to leverage the latest
         functionalities.
         Native Dataverse
         If you created a canvas app with either the Dataverse or the Dynamics 365 connector
         before November 2019, then you might not have the benefits of using the current
         native connection experience for the Dataverse.
         If you created your app prior to November 2019 and you aren't using a native Dataverse
         connection, then in Settings in the Upcoming features tab, in the 'Retired' tab you'll find
         the Improve data source experience and Microsoft Dataverse views option along with
         the Relational data, choices, and other new features for Microsoft Dataverse.
         How do I upgrade?
         Upgrade your app by inspecting the settings of the features and then by following the
         directions below:
         Relational data, option sets and other new features for
         Microsoft Dataverse is Off
         Check Retired section under Upcoming features. If set to Off, continue with the following
         instructions as a first step in the conversion.
         If you don't see Relational data, option sets and other new features for Microsoft
         Dataverse in General settings, or if it’s already On, skip the following steps and continue
         to the next section.
            Step 1: Turn Use display names feature On:
           1. Turn Use display names feature On.
           2. Wait for the health monitor to finish analyzing your app.
           3. Save, close, and reopen your app.
           4. Resolve all formula errors.
           5. Save, close, and reopen your app.
          Possible errors and suggestions:
          It’s possible that some of the newly shown display names may conflict with the
          display names for other tables, fields, or controls. For example, you may have a
          control and a field with the same name. You can change the name of the control
          with a unique value to fix.
          For any field and table display name conflict, you may see a formula that expects a
          table but resolves to a locally scoped field name.
          Use the square bracket with an @ symbol to indicate a global scope so it resolves
          to the table; for example, [@tableName].
          Step 2: Turn Relational data, option sets and other new features for Microsoft
          Dataverse and Use GUID data types instead of strings features On:
           1. Turn Relational data, option sets and other new features for Microsoft
            Dataverse feature On.
           2. Turn Use GUID data types instead of strings feature On.
           3. Wait for the health monitor to finish analyzing your app.
           4. Resolve all formula errors.
           5. Save, close, and reopen your app.
          Possible errors and suggestions:
          It’s possible to have errors at this stage if you're using a choice field or hard-coded
          GUID text values.
           Choice values: If you're using choice field with a text identifier for the choice
           value, use the dot notation instead to reference the choice value. For example,
           change Patch(Accounts, OptionSet1 = “12345”) to Patch(Accounts,
           OptionSet.Item1) where Item1 corresponds to the 12345 value.
           More information: Detailed Examples.
           GUIDs: If you're using a static GUID string such as
           015e45e1044e49f388115be07f2ee116, convert it to a function that returns a GUID
           object; for example GUID(“015e45e1044e49f388115be07f2ee116”).
               Lookups: If you're using Lookup functions to get first-level lookup values such as
               Lookup(Contacts, ‘contactID’ = ThisItem.ContactID”), consider using
               ThisItem.PrimaryContacts (where PrimaryContacts is the name of the table)
               instead.
         Improve data source experience and Microsoft Dataverse
         views is Off
         Use the following instruction to turn Improve data source experience and Microsoft
         Dataverse views feature On:
           1. Remove your existing Dataverse data source connections.
           2. Turn On the Improve data source experience and Microsoft Dataverse views
             feature.
           3. Add the Dataverse connection using the new data source selection experience.
           4. Save your application.
           ７ Note
           If your application is extremely large, adding your data source connections back
           may take a while. Don't close the application during this process.
         Converting canvas apps with the Dynamics 365
         connector
         To convert your app that uses the Dynamics 365 connector, you need to remove and
         add the connections to your data sources. Use the steps below to convert your
         connections to your data sources.
           1. Ensure the Improve data source experience and Microsoft Dataverse views
             feature is turned On.
           2. Remove your existing Dynamics 365 data source connections.
           3. Add the connections to your data sources to the Dataverse using the new data
             source selection experience.
              ７ Note
              If you have connections to other environments (other than current),
              select the Table category and then the More (...) option to change the
              environment. You can then select a table from a different environment to
              add to your application. Cross-tenant connections don't work with the
              improved native connector. You'll need to use data integration to access
              data cross-tenant.
              You need to meet one of the following requirements to be able to see
              an environment that you want to add the connection to:
               You're the Owner of the app, or the app is shared with you as a Co-
               owner.
               You're a member of at least one of these security roles: Environment
               Admin, Environment Maker, or System Administrator. For more
               information about the security roles in an environment, go to
               Configure user security to resources in an environment.
        4. Save your application.
       Possible errors and suggestions:
       It’s possible to have errors as you convert if: you aren't using Display Names, if you're
       using GUID strings, or if you're using a choice.
          If control name conflicts, change the name of the control to be different and
          unique.
          For field and table display name conflicts, you might see a formula that is
          expecting a table but is resolving to a more locally scoped field name. Use the
          square bracket with an @ symbol to indicate a global scope so it resolves to the
          table; for example, [@tableName].
          Choice values: If you're using a choice field with a text identifier for the choice
          value, use the dot notation instead to reference the choice value. For example,
          change Patch(Accounts, OptionSet1 = “12345”) to Patch(Accounts,
          OptionSet.Item1) where Item1 corresponds to the 12345 value.
          More information: Detailed Examples.
          GUIDs: If you're using a static GUID string such as
          015e45e1044e49f388115be07f2ee116, convert it to a function that returns a GUID
          object; for example GUID(“015e45e1044e49f388115be07f2ee116”).
          Lookups: If you're using Lookup functions to get first-level lookup values such as
          Lookup(Contacts, ‘contactID’ = ThisItem.ContactID”), consider using
           ThisItem.PrimaryContacts (where PrimaryContacts is the name of the table)
           instead.
           For any Polymorphic references, refer to the Detailed Examples section below.
        Detailed Examples
        Converting your app to use the new Option sets and Two options data types with
        supporting controls can be challenging while upgrading an app to use the new Improve
        data source experience and Microsoft Dataverse views feature.
        Choices
        Separate _myfield and _myfield_label fields were used for choice earlier. Now, there's
        a single myfield that can be used both for locale-independent comparisons and to
        obtain the locale-specific label.
        Removing and adding choice Data cards
        We recommend that youremove existing data cards and add them back to work with
        your choice. For example, if you're working with the Account table and the Category
        choice, you see that the DataField property of the data card was set to
        _accountcategorycode_label. In the field list you can see that the data card has a type of
        String:
      With the new Improved data source experience and Microsoft Dataverse views feature,
      you no longer see _accountcategorycode_label. It's replaced by accountcategorycode.
      Your card is now be marked as custom and you'll see errors. Remove the old data card
      and add the Choice back. The new data card is Choice aware.
       Editing the Choice Filter expressions to use new syntax
       Previously, if you wanted to use a Choice value in a Filter expression you would need to
       use the Value field. For example:
         Power Fx
         Filter(Account,'Category Value' = "1")
       You'll need to edit this formula. Choice text identifer is no longer used for the value. This
       expression should be updated to:
         Power Fx
         Filter(Account, Category= ‘Category (Accounts)’.’Preferred Customer’)
       'Category(Accounts)' is the name of enum used in the Category field of the Accounts
       table. This is a local choice. You can read more about local and global choices here:
       Global choices.
       Editing choices patch statements to use new syntax
         Following is an example of earlier Patch statement for choice:
           Power Fx
           Patch( Accounts, First(Accounts), { ‘Category Value’: 1 } ) )
         You'll need to update your statements to follow this form:
           Power Fx
           Patch( Accounts, First(Accounts), { Category: ‘Category 
           (Accounts)’.’Preferred Customer’ } )
         Choice disambiguation
         If the display name of an choice field and the name of the choice are the same, you'll
         need to disambiguate the formula. To continue using the Accounts Category Code
         example, the @ implies to use the choice, not the field.
           Power Fx
           Filter(Accounts, 'Category Code' = [@’Category Code’].'Preferred Customer')
         Two Options
         Removing and adding Yes/No Data cards
         Remove existing data cards and add them back to work with your Yes/No. The data
         types were earlier recognized as simple boolean - such as true/on and false/off with no
         labels:
      With the new Improved data source experience and Microsoft Dataverse views feature,
      your card will now be marked as custom and you'll see errors. Remove the old data card
      and add the choice back. You'll see an edit control with two options by default after you
      add.
       If you prefer the toggle switch for your boolean field, you can unlock the data card and
       replace the control in the data card with a toggle instead. You'll also need to set these
       properties on the Toggle.
         Power Fx
         Toggle1.Default = ThisItem.’Do not allow Bulk Emails’
         Toggle1.TrueText = ‘Do not allow Bulk Emails (Accounts)’.’Do Not Allow’
         Toggle1.FalseText = ‘Do not allow Bulk Emails (Accounts)’.Allow
         DataCard.Value = If( Toggle1.Value,
             ‘Do not allow Bulk Emails (Accounts)’.’Do Not Allow’,
             ‘Do not allow Bulk Emails (Accounts)’.Allow )
      Refining Two Option Patch statements
      Using the Patch function with Two option should work 'as is'. It supports direct use of
      true and false, similar to Boolean. The only difference is being if you had put the value in
      a Label control earlier that showed true and false, it will now show the Two option labels
      instead.
      Polymorphic lookups
      Following guidelines help to upgrade your application if it referenced polymorphic
      fields. Polymorphic lookups, from the same field, support references to a restricted set
      of multiple tables. Similar to references in other languages, a record reference is a
      pointer to a specific record in a specific table. A record reference carries the table
      information allowing it to point to a record in several other tables, which differs from a
      normal lookup that can only point to records in one table.
      Access, Set, and Filter on the Owner field of a record
      For instance, the Owner field in a table can refer to a record in the Users table or the
      Teams table. The same lookup field in different records could refer to records in
         different tables.
         Polymorphic with Filter and Patch
         Record references can be used just like a full record:
           Power Fx
           Filter( Accounts, Owner = First( Teams ) )
           Patch( Accounts, First( Accounts ), { Owner: First( Users ) })
         Polymorphic with a Gallery displaying Owner name
         Since a reference can point to different tables, you must be specific. You can't use
         ThisItem.Owner.Name, as the name field in the Team table is Team Name, and the
         name field in the User table is Full Name. Power Apps doesn't know which type of
         lookup you're referring to, until you run the app.
         To fix this issue:
           1. Add the data sources for the entity types that Owner could be; in current example,
             Users and Teams).
           2. Use more functions to make your intent clear.
         There are two new functions you can make use of:
             IsType – Checks if a record reference is of a particular table type.
             AsType – Casts a record reference to a particular table type.
         With these functions, you can write a formula that displays the name of the Owner taken
         from two differently named fields, based on the table type of the Owner:
           Power Fx
           If( IsType( ThisItem.Owner,  [@Teams]), 
               AsType( ThisItem.Owner, [@Teams]).'Team Name', 
               AsType( ThisItem.Owner, [@Users]).'Full Name' )
         Global disambiguation operator for [@Teams] and [@Users] is used to ensure that you
         reference the global table type. Though in this case it's not necessary, it's a
         recommended to always be clear. One-to-many relationships often conflict in the
         gallery's record scope, and this practice avoids that confusion.
         Access and set the Company Name field (a Customer data type) of
         the Contacts table
         Customer lookup field is another polymorphic lookup that's similar to Owner. You can
         only have one Owner field per table. But a table can include zero, one, or more
         Customer lookup fields. The Contacts system table includes the Company Name field,
         which is a Customer lookup field. Read show the fields of a customer for more details.
         Access and set the Regarding field of activity tables such as Faxes,
         Phone Calls, Email Messages
         Polymorphic lookups aren't limited to Accounts and Contacts. The list of tables is
         extensible with custom tables. For example, the Faxes table has a polymorphic
         Regarding lookup field, which can refer to Accounts, Contacts, and other tables. If you
         have a gallery with data source set to Faxes, you can use the following formula to
         display the name associated with the Regarding lookup field.
           Power Fx
        If( IsBlank( ThisItem.Regarding ), "",
           IsType( ThisItem.Regarding, [@Accounts] ),
               "Account: " & AsType( ThisItem.Regarding, [@Accounts] ).'Account 
        Name',
           IsType( ThisItem.Regarding, [@Contacts] ),
               "Contacts: " & AsType( ThisItem.Regarding, [@Contacts] ).'Full Name',
           "" )
       Read Regarding lookup fields and Regarding relationships for more details.
       Access the list of all Activities for a record
       In Dataverse, tables such as Faxes, Tasks, Emails, Notes, Phone Calls, Letters, and Chats
       are designated as activities. You can also create your own custom activity tables.
       You can show activities of a specific type (such as Faxes or Taxes), or all activities
       associated with a table such as account. Add the Activities table and other individual
       tables whose data you plan to display in the canvas app.
       Each time you add a record to (for example the Tasks table), a record in the Activity table
       with the fields common across all activity tables is created. Read activity table for more
       details.
       The following example shows that as you select an Account, all the Activities associated
       with that account will be displayed:
       The records are being displayed from the Activity table. But you can still use the IsType
       function to identify which kind of activity they are. Again, before you use IsType with a
       table type, you must add the necessary data source.
       By using this formula, you can show the record type in a label control within the gallery:
         Power Fx
         If( IsType( ThisItem, [@Faxes] ), "Fax",
            IsType( ThisItem, [@'Phone Calls'] ), "Phone Call",
            IsType( ThisItem, [@'Email Messages'] ), "Email Message",
            IsType( ThisItem, [@Chats] ), "Chat",
            "Unknown")
       Access the list of Notes for a record
       When you create a table, you can enable attachments. If you select the check box for
       enabling attachments, you create a Regarding relationship with the Notes table, as this
       graphic shows for the Accounts table:
       Filtering
       You can't read or filter based on the Regarding field. However, the reverse Notes one-
       to-many relationship is available. To list all the Notes associated to an Account table,
       you can use the following formula:
         Power Fx
         First( Accounts ).Notes
              Patch
              You can't set the Notes field on a table by using Patch. To add a record to a table's
              Notes table, you can use the Relate function. Create the note first, as in this example:
                Power Fx
                Relate( ThisItem.Notes, Patch( Notes, Defaults( Notes ), { Title: "A new 
                note", isdocument:'Is Document (Notes)'.No } ) )
              Next steps
                    Formula reference
                    Controls reference
              See also
              What is Dataverse?
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
             Connect to cloud-storage from Power
             Apps
             Article • 12/16/2022
             Power Apps offers several cloud-storage connections. Using any of these connections,
             you can store an Excel file and use the information in it throughout your app. These
             connections include:
              Box              Dropbox         Google Drive     OneDrive         OneDrive for Business
                ７ Note
                To learn about using Azure Blob Storage with Power Apps, go to Connect to Azure
                Blob Storage from Power Apps.
             Prerequisites
                   Access to Power Apps
                   Add the connection
                   Create an app from a template, from data, or from scratch
                   An Excel file with the data formatted as a table  :
                      1. Open the Excel file, and then select any cell in the data that you want to use.
                      2. On the Insert tab, select Table.
                      3. In the Save as Table dialog box, select the My table has headers checkbox,
                        and then select OK.
                      4. Save your changes.
             Connect to the cloud storage connection
                1. At powerapps.com      , expand Manage, and select Connections:
       2. Select New connection, and select your cloud storage connection. For example,
        select OneDrive.
       3. You are prompted for the user name and password of your cloud storage account.
        Enter them, and then select Sign in: 
        Once you are signed in, this connection is ready to be used within your apps.
       4. In your app, click or tap Data sources on the View tab of the ribbon. In the right-
        hand pane, click or tap Add a data source, click or tap your cloud-storage
        connection, and then choose the Excel table.
         5. Select Connect.
          The table is listed as a data source:
           ７ Note
           Remember, the Excel data must be formatted as a table.
       Using the Excel data in your app
         1. On the Insert tab, select Gallery, and then select a With text gallery control.
         2. Set the Items property of the gallery to your Excel table. For example, if your Excel
          table is named Table1, then set it to Table1:
         The gallery is automatically updated with information from your Excel table.
        3. In the gallery, select the second or third Label control. By default, you see the Text
         property of the second and third labels is automatically set to ThisItem.something.
         You can set these labels to any column in your table.
         In the following example, the second label is set to ThisItem.Name and the third
         label is set to ThisItem.Notes:
         Sample output: 
        ７ Note
        The first box is actually an image control. If you don't have an image in your Excel
        table, then you can delete the image control, and add a label in its place. Add and
        configure controls is a good resource.
       Understand tables and records provides more details and some examples.
       Sharing your app
       You can share your app, your resources such as connectors, and your data with others in
       your organization.
       If you're sharing a folder in Dropbox, the shared folder must be attached to the user's
       Dropbox account.
       There are certain limitations with connectors involving Excel files.
             Known limitations
                  If Data type unsupported or Not formatted as a table appears when you try to
                  use an Excel connection in your app, format the data as a table   .
                  If your Excel data includes a calculated column, you can't use it to build an app,
                  and you can’t add that data to an existing app.
                  Power Apps mobile app for Windows platform doesn't support Dropbox
                  connector. A pop-up dialog will show the following message in this situation:  
                   Upgrade browser to use Dropbox  
                  When this happens, consider using web player on Windows platform.
             Sharing Excel tables
             To share data in an Excel file:
                  In OneDrive for Business, share the file itself.
                  In OneDrive, share the folder that contains the file, and specify file paths, not URLs,
                  for any media.
                  In Dropbox or Google Drive, share either the file or the folder.
             Helpful links
             See all the available connections. 
             Learn how to add connections and add a data source to your apps. 
             Understand tables and records with tabular data sources. 
             Some additional gallery resources include Show a list of items and Show images and
             text in a gallery.
             Connect to Azure Blob Storage from
             Power Apps
             Article • 12/16/2022
             Power Apps can connect to Azure Blob Storage. You can upload files such as Word,
             Excel, or multimedia images, audio or video using the Azure Blob Storage connector for
             Power Apps.
             When you design a canvas app that connects to Azure Blob Storage, the app uses the
             blob storage account name and key to connect. After you share the app with others,
             users can use the connection configured inside the app to upload files to Azure Blob
             Storage without the need to share blob storage name and keys with the app users.
             In this article, you'll learn how to create a sample canvas app that connects to Azure
             Blob Storage, and add controls to the app that allow you to upload different types of
             files to the connected blob storage.
               ７ Note
               To learn more about other types of cloud storage options with Power Apps (such as
               OneDrive, OneDrive for Business, Google Drive, Dropbox, or Box), go to Connect to
               cloud storage from Power Apps.
             Prerequisites
             Before you begin, create and configure a BlockBlobStorage account. You can also use
             legacy BlobStorage account, though not recommended. More information: Types of
             storage accounts in Azure Blob Storage
             Create Azure Blob Storage connection
             Power Apps requires a connection to Azure Blob Storage to be created for the app to
             connect to the storage.
             To create the Azure Blob Storage connection:
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. On the left-pane, expand Data.
       3. Select Connections.
       4. Select New connection.
       5. Select Azure Blob Storage.
       6. Copy and paste the account name, and access key.
        For more information about how to copy account name and access key, go to View
        account access keys in Azure.
       7. Select Create.
      Your connection to the Azure Blob Storage is now configured and ready to use with
      canvas apps.
             Create canvas app with Azure Blob Storage
             connection
             Now that you have the connection with Azure Blob Storage created, let's create a canvas
             app that connects to this storage.
               ７ Note
               In this section, you'll create a sample app with sample controls, functionality and
               layout design. Depending on your business requirement, you can create the app
               with a different structure, or customize differently.
                1. Create a blank canvas app with the name "Sample app for Azure Blob Storage" and
                   Phone layout.
                2. Inside Power Apps Studio, on the left-pane, select     .
                3. Select Add data.
                4. From the list of connectors, select Azure Blob Storage.
               View containers and files
               Now that you have the app connected to Azure Blob Storage, let's add galleries to see
               containers and files within the containers from the connected storage.
                   1. Select Insert -> Gallery -> Blank vertical.
                   2. From the right-side of the screen, on the property pane, select the layout drop-
                      down and choose Title.
                   3. Select first     inside the gallery, and delete it.
                   4. From the right-side of the screen, on the property pane, select the drop-down for
                      data source, and choose Azure Blob Storage.
                   5. Set the Items property of the gallery to:
                         Power Fx
                         AzureBlobStorage.ListRootFolderV2().value
                      This operation lists blobs in the Azure Blob Storage root folder. More information:
                      List blobs in root folder
                   6. Select Insert -> Gallery -> Blank vertical to add another blank vertical gallery.
                   7. Move the gallery below the gallery you added earlier that shows the list of
                      containers.
                   8. From the right-side of the screen, on the property pane, select the layout drop-
                      down and choose Title, subtitle, and body.
                   9. Select first     inside the gallery, and delete it.
                 10. From the right-side of the screen, on the property pane, select the drop-down for
                      data source, and choose Azure Blob Storage.
                 11. Set the Items property of the gallery to:
            Power Fx
            AzureBlobStorage.ListFolderV2(Gallery1.Selected.Id).value
          This operation lists blobs in a container. More information: List blobs
            ７ Note
            Gallery1 in this formula is the reference to the gallery added earlier that lists
            all containers in the storage account. Update the formula with the gallery
            name if different.
        12. From the right-side of the screen, on the property pane, select Edit for Fields.
        13. Change the selected fields for the gallery title as DisplayName, subtitle as
          LastModified, and body as Path.
          The gallery now shows the list of files from the container selected using the gallery
          on the top.
       14. Select Insert -> Text label.
       15. Place the label on top of the app screen.
       16. Set the label's Text property as "Select a container".
       17. Use the properties pane on the right-side of the screen and choose the label text
        color, size, and label text background color of your choice.
       18. Select Insert -> Text label.
       19. Place the label above the gallery with the list of files.
       20. Set the label's Text property as "Files list".
       Upload files to Azure Blob Storage
       With the app design so far, you're able to select a container and then list the files from
       the container.
       Let's configure the app with controls and logic to allow upload of files to the connected
       Azure Blob Storage.
         1. Select Insert -> Media -> Add picture to add the ability to select files to upload.
         2. Resize the Add picture control and place it on the bottom-left of the app screen.
         3. Set the Text property of the control to "Select a file to upload".
         4. Select Insert -> Button.
         5. Place the button on bottom-right side of the app screen.
         6. Set the Text property of the button to "Upload".
         7. Select Insert -> Text input.
         8. Place the text input control above the Upload button.
         9. Set the Default property of the button to "Enter File Name".
        10. Set the OnSelect property of the button to:
            Power Fx
            AzureBlobStorage.CreateFile(Gallery1.Selected.Name,TextInput1.Text, 
            UploadedImage1.Image)
          This operation uploads a blob to Azure Blob Storage. More information: Create
          blob
            ７ Note
            Gallery1 in this formula is the reference to the gallery added earlier that lists
            all containers in the storage account. The file will be uploaded to the selected
            container in gallery 1. TextInput1 and uploadImage1 reference the text input
            and upload image controls. Update the formula with the control names if
            different.
          The app controls look like this in the sample app now.
             Tip
            Ensure you select All files when using the upload option to ensure all file
            types are visible in the file explorer dialog box.
       Download files from Azure Blob Storage
       So far you've added the ability to view containers, files from the selected container, and
       the option to upload files to the storage. Now, let's understand how to work with the
       download capability with the connected storage.
         1. Select the first row in the gallery with the list of files from a container.
         2. Select Insert -> Icons -> Download. This adds the download icon for all rows in
          the gallery.
         3. Move the first download icon towards the right side inside the gallery on the app
          screen. This also moves the rest of the icons for the next rows in the gallery.
         4. Set the OnSelect property of the download icon to:
            Power Fx
            Launch(AzureBlobStorage.CreateShareLinkByPath(ThisItem.Path).WebUrl)
           This operation creates a SAS link for a blob using the path. More information:
           Create SAS URI by path
            ） Important
            SAS URI created using CreateShareLinkByPath has a default expiry of 24
            hours. If you have a business requirement to expire the URI in a shorter or
            different time, consider updates to this formula. For example, the below
            sample expires the URI in 1 hour using Now() and DateAdd() functions.
            Power Fx
            Launch(AzureBlobStorage.CreateShareLinkByPath(ThisItem.Path,
            {ExpiryTime:DateAdd( Now(),1)}).WebUrl)
             Tip
            For more information about configuring Azure Blob Storage for public
            anonymous access, and different public access levels, go to Configure
            anonymous public read access for containers and blobs.
        The app now has the ability to allow you to download the files.
        Test, save, publish and share the app
        Play the app to test, and verify the app works as expected. After the testing, ensure you
        save and publish the app before you close Power Apps Studio. And then, you can share
        the app with others within your organization, or guests outside your organization.
        Optional customizations
        In this section, you'll learn about optional and additional customizations that you can
        consider for your app.
        Media type
        You can use Media type, or Path fields for the gallery to optionally display the image
        content in the respective controls. For example, PDF viewer for PDF files, Image for
        images, or Audio/video for audio/video files.
        For example, to filter the files with the file extension type of .pdf, use the following
        sample formula.
          Power Fx
          If(".pdf" in Gallery2.Selected.Path, 
          AzureBlobStorage.GetFileContent(Gallery2.Selected.Id))
        Similarly, you can use different file extension types, or media types to additionally
        customize added controls.
        Refresh galleries connected to Azure Blob Storage
        The Azure Blob Storage connection doesn't refresh data inside the galleries
        automatically when the data is updated. If you have more than one container, you can
        select the other container and then, select the previously selected container back to
        refresh the connected gallery to display the changes.
        Another method that can be considered is to use a collection for the first gallery, and
        then, use the function ClearCollect to refresh the collection.
        For example, the following formulas allow you to update the collection for the top
        containers list in the first gallery, and update the second gallery when the upload button
        is selected, or when the screen appears (OnVisible screen property).
          1. Set the Items property of the first gallery for the list of containers to "TopLevelList".
          2. Append to the upload button OnSelect property:
             Power Fx
             ClearCollect(TopLevelList, AzureBlobStorage.ListRootFolderV2().value)
          3. Add to the screen OnVisible property:
             Power Fx
             ClearCollect(TopLevelList, AzureBlobStorage.ListRootFolderV2().value)
        Limitations
        You can't use Microsoft Excel as the data source when the file is stored in Azure Blob
        Storage. To use Excel as the data source, use the other cloud storage connectors (such
              as OneDrive, OneDrive for Business, Google Drive, Dropbox, or Box). More information:
              Connect to cloud storage from Power Apps
              Next steps
              Design the app interface
              See also
              Connect to cloud storage from Power Apps
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Connect to Azure DevOps from Power
     Apps
     06/21/2025
     The Power Apps connector for Azure DevOps lets you work with your Azure DevOps instance.
     View Azure DevOps queries, select work items by type, and view or edit details—all from inside
     a canvas app connected to Azure DevOps.
        Tip
       For a complete list of all actions, see Azure DevOps connector actions.
     This article guides you through building a canvas app that connects to Azure DevOps to get a
     list of queries and interact with work items in your project.
     Prerequisites
     You need the following:
        A Power Apps license. If you don't have one, use a 30-day trial, or sign up for a developer
        plan for non-production use.
        If you're new to Power Apps, learn the basics by generating an app, then customize the
        app's controls, gallery, forms, and cards.
        A blank canvas app to connect to Azure DevOps.
        To create the app in this article, you need an Azure DevOps instance with an organization,
        a project, and a shared query that has a few sample work items available for editing.
        The Azure DevOps instance must let Third-party application access via OAuth. For more
        information, see Manage access policies for Azure DevOps.
     Step 1 - Add Azure DevOps data source
     To connect to Azure DevOps, edit the blank canvas app, and add the Azure DevOps data
     source.
     If you don't have an Azure DevOps connection, select Connect, follow the prompts to enter
     your details, and allow the app to connect.
     Step 2 - List shared queries
     In this section, you use the ListQueriesInFolder action for the Azure DevOps connector to list
     the available queries.
       1. In the left pane, select Insert > Layout > Blank vertical gallery.
       2. Enter the following formula for the Items property of the gallery. Replace the example
        parameter values with your own values.
          Power Fx
          AzureDevOps.ListQueriesInFolder("Project", "Organization", "Folder").value
     The example uses the variables "Project", "Organization", and "Folder". The actual values are in
     the text boxes below the formula bar (highlighted). You find your Project and Organization
     values in the URL used to connect to Azure DevOps. The Folder is usually "Shared Queries" or
     "My Queries".
     If you get the following error in the above formula, enable third-party app access using OAuth
     in your Azure DevOps organization, and try again.
     "AzureDevOps.ListQueriesInFolder failed:{"status":401,"message":"TF400813:The user 'GUID'
     isn't authorized to access this resource."}"
       1. Set the Layout for the gallery to Title and subtitle.
       2. Choose the fields appropriate for Azure DevOps as Name and FolderOptions for the title
        and subtitles.
     Step 3 - List work items
     Use the GetQueryResultsV2 action for the Azure DevOps connector to list all work items for the
     selected query. This action binds the gallery to the data source.
       1. Insert another blank vertical gallery and place it next to the existing gallery.
       2. Enter the following formula for the Items property of the gallery. Replace the example
        parameter values with your project and organization names.
           Power Fx
           AzureDevOps.GetQueryResultsV2("Project", Text(Gallery1.Selected.Id), 
           "Organization").value
      This formula uses the GetQueryResultsV2 action with the project name, query ID, and
      organization name. The query ID in this example (Gallery2.Selected.Id) refers to the query
      selected from the list of queries available through the gallery added earlier. Replace the gallery
      name as needed.
      Add dynamic return values to your gallery
      The result of GetQueryResultsV2 is dynamic, so the values are dynamic as well.
      But you can access some of the values. Azure DevOps returns a basic set of values for all typed
      items. Select the data card in the gallery and insert two text labels. Set the text property of the
      labels as follows:
        Power Fx
        ThisItem.Value.'System.WorkItemType'
        ThisItem.Value.'System.Title'
      Step 4 - Display work items
     The app shows a list of all queries and the list of work items for the selected query. Now, add
     an edit form to display data.
       1. Move both galleries to the left side of the screen to make room for the edit form.
       2. Add Edit form to the screen and move it to the right side of the galleries.
       1. Set the DataSource property of the edit form to
        AzureDevOps.GetQueryResultsV2("Project",
        Text(Gallery1.Selected.Id),"Organization").value. Replace "Project" and "Organization"
        with your project and organization names.
       2. Set the Item property of the edit form to Gallery2.Selected.
     This formula sets the Item property for the edit form to the work item that is selected.
       1. Select ... (ellipsis) > Add a custom card.
      1. Move the data card to the top of the edit form.
      1. Increase the size of the text input control.
       1. Set the Default property of the text input control to
        Text(ThisItem.Value.'System.Title'). The Text function returns the value as text.
     This formula sets the default text inside the text input control to the Title field from the
     selected Azure DevOps work item.
       Tip
      If your Azure DevOps project uses the Description field with HTML or rich text, use the
      Rich text editor input control instead of the Text input or label controls. The Rich text
      editor control helps display the description as rich text instead of HTML code.
       1. Repeat the previous steps to add another custom card, with a text input control inside
        with the Default property set to Text(ThisItem.Value.'System.State').
     This formula sets the default text inside the text input control to the State field from the
     selected Azure DevOps work item.
        1. Rearrange the data cards inside the edit form to create space for the save icon.
      Add dynamic return values to your forms
      So far, you use the Edit form, which simplifies data access by providing a common DataSource
      and Item property for all data cards in the form. To access dynamic values, set both the data
      source and the item properties as follows (replace Organization and Project with your values):
       Power Fx
        AzureDevOps.GetWorkItemDetails(Gallery2.Selected.Value.'System.Id',Organization, 
        Project, Gallery2.Selected.Value.'System.WorkItemType')
      When you pass the text property "WorkItemType", such as "Feature", you can switch between
      items like Features and Work Items. Because the set of fields for these items differs, the return
      type from this call is dynamic.
      Access specific values using the common method Text(ThisItem.Value.'System.Id'). Alternatively,
      access them through the more general dynamic response using Text(ThisItem.fields.System_Id).
      These dynamic value names aren't typically documented. To find the correct names for these
      fields, including non-standard fields, open the monitor tool and examine the data response for
      the GetWorkItemDetails call. See the image below for guidance.
      If you aren't using an Edit form but are using a container, retrieve these values with a formula
      like the one below, which gets information from a custom team field.
       Power Fx
        Text(AzureDevOps.GetWorkItemDetails(Gallery2.Selected.Value.'System.Id',Organizati
        on, Project, 
        Gallery2.Selected.Value.'System.WorkItemType').fields.One_custom_CustomField1)
     Updating values in Azure DevOps
     To update a value in Azure DevOps, use the UpdateWorkItem function in the OnSelect property
     of a button.
       Power Fx
       AzureDevOps.UpdateWorkItem(
           Gallery2.Selected.Value.'System.Id',
           Organization,
           {
               description: "This is a new description",
               dynamicFields: ParseJSON(JSON({'Custom Field 1': "This is new custom text" 
       }))
           }
       )
      The formula adds new sample text, but you can also use a Power Fx expression.
      Make sure the formula uses lowercase for built-in field names. For example, when you refer to
      the Description field, use description: "This is a new description" instead of Description:
      "This is a new description". Incorrect casing can result in the error "400 Required parameter
      missing for requested operation: 'UpdateWorkItem'". For custom or dynamic values, use the
      display name as shown in the UI, such as 'Custom Field 1'. This naming convention is specific to
      Azure DevOps and might differ from other services.
      Next steps
      Run the app. Select a query from the list of queries. Then, choose a work item you want to
      update the title or description of. Make a change, and then select the save button. The app
      saves your changes to the Azure DevOps work item. Switch to another query, and then switch
      back to see the changes in the app.
      You can also customize the app further or create an app with more data cards on forms. Use a
      display form instead of an edit form to show data in different data cards. When you use a
      display form, use the Text label control to show text. When you use rich text or HTML format
      (like the Description field in Azure DevOps), use the HTML text control. For more information
      about customizing the app, see controls, gallery, forms, and cards.
      See also
      Working with dynamic schema data sources in Power Apps (experimental)
       Connect to Dynamics 365 from Power
       Apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       If you want to connect to Dynamics 365 Business Central, Dynamics 365 Customer
       Insights, or Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations apps, choose the relevant connector.
        ） Important
        The Dynamics 365 connector is deprecated. For more information, see Dynamics
        365 connector deprecation announcement.
           Use the Microsoft Dataverse connector when connecting to the Microsoft
           Dataverse used for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Sales, Microsoft Dynamics 365
           Customer Service, Microsoft Dynamics 365 Field Service, Microsoft Dynamics
           365 Marketing, and Microsoft Dynamics 365 Project Service Automation.
           To convert your app that uses the deprecated Dynamics 365 connector, go to
           Converting canvas apps with the Dynamics 365 connector.
       See also
       Connecting to Your Business Central Data to Build a Business App Using Power Apps 
       Microsoft Power Platform integration with Finance and Operations
        Connect to Dynamics AX from Power
        Apps
        Article • 12/16/2022
        Use this connection to easily build apps that read, update, and delete data from these
        versions of Dynamics AX:
        • Dynamics AX Update1 + hotfix-KB article
        • Dynamics AX Update 2 and later
        For information about how to create an app, see Generate an app automatically or
        Create an app from scratch. These topics are written for Excel, but the same principles
        apply to Dynamics AX.
        For information about how to add data from Dynamics AX to an existing app, see Add a
        data connection.
        See the list of available connections, and learn how to manage connections in Power
        Apps.
        Next steps
           Learn how to show data from a data source.
           Learn how to view details and create or update records.
          Create a canvas app based on Excel data
          This article shows you how to create a canvas app by using Excel data as the data source. If you
          already track business data in Excel, Power Apps gives you several ways to turn that data into an
          app.
          You'll learn three ways to work with Excel data:
                Upload an Excel file and create a Dataverse table.
                Connect to an Excel file that stays in cloud storage.
                Start with a blank canvas app and add Excel data yourself.
          Before you begin, make sure that your Excel data is formatted as a table. This preparation helps
          Power Apps read and use the data correctly. For more information, see Formatted as a table in
          Excel    .
          To create an app by using Excel data, choose one of the following options in Power Apps                        .
                                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
           Create options by          Benefits                                                  Navigation
           using Excel
           Upload an Excel or         Power Apps converts the uploaded data into a              Select Start with data >
           .CSV file to Power         Dataverse table. Use this approach when you want          Upload file.
           Apps                       cloud storage, improved security, and a reusable
                                      table for other apps and flows.
           Connect to an              The workbook stays in its current cloud location.         Select Start with data > Excel
           external Excel file and    Use this approach when you want a fast way to             Online (Business).
           use it to create a         create an app from an existing Excel table.
           canvas app
           Create a blank canvas      You control the screens, layout, formulas, and data       In the left navigation pane,
           app and then add           experience. Use this approach when you want the           select Create > Create from
           Excel data                 most flexibility.                                         blank. Then select the app
                                                                                                size.
          Upload an Excel or CSV file to Power Apps
          When you upload Excel data to Power Apps, Power Apps converts the data into a Dataverse table.
          This approach makes the data easier to manage in Power Apps and gives you capabilities that go
        beyond Excel alone. For more information, see Why use Dataverse?.
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. On the home screen, select Start with data.
           3. On the Create an app page, select Upload file.
           4. Select Select from device, browse to your Excel file, and then upload it.
                ７ Note
                The maximum file size is 5 GB.
           5. When Power Apps creates the table, select a column name or the table name to edit
             properties as needed. If you change a column data type and some existing values don't
             match the new type, Power Apps removes those values when it generates the table. For
             more information, see Create and edit tables using Power Apps.
           6. Select Row ownership and choose how you want to manage row ownership.
           7. When you're done, select Save and open app.
        Power Apps uploads the first 20 rows so that you can start reviewing the app right away. It
        uploads the remaining data in the background.
        Known issues
             The current data upload process doesn't take the environment data format setting into
             account.
        Connect to an external Excel file from Power Apps
        Store the Excel file in a cloud storage service such as Dropbox, Google Drive, OneDrive, or
        OneDrive for Business. Power Apps can connect only to Excel files that are stored in the cloud.
        Power Apps includes an Excel connector that you can use to access Excel data. The Excel Online
        (Business) connector provides a fast way to create and deploy apps that use data stored in Excel.
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. On the home screen, select Start with data.
           3. On the Create an app page, select Excel Online (Business).
            4. If more than one connection is available, select ... to switch connections or add a new one.
            5. Enter the file location, and then select the table.
            6. Select Create app.
        To learn more about sharing Excel data, see Sharing Excel tables.
        Create a blank canvas app and add Excel data
        Use this example to create a two-screen app in which users browse records on one screen and
        add, edit, or delete records on another screen.
        Prerequisites
            1. Copy this data into an Excel file.
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
               StartDay              StartTime                 Volunteer               Backup
               Saturday              10am-noon                 Vasquez                 Kumashiro
               Saturday              noon-2pm                  Ice                     Singhal
               Saturday              2pm-4pm                   Myk                     Mueller
               Sunday                10am-noon                 Li                      Adams
               Sunday                noon-2pm                  Singh                   Morgan
               Sunday                2pm-4pm                   Batye                   Nguyen
            2. Format the data as a table in Excel   and name the table Schedule so that Power Apps can
              read it.
            3. Save the file as eventsignup.xlsx, close it, and then upload it to a cloud-storage account
              such as OneDrive.
           ） Important
           You can use your own Excel file and follow this example for the general approach. However,
           the data in the Excel file must be formatted as a table    .
        Create a blank app and connect to data
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. In the left navigation pane, select Create > Start from blank.
           3. Select the Phone size layout.
             The app opens in Power Apps Studio, where you can add data and start building.
           4. In the middle of the screen, select Connect to data.
           5. In the Data pane, select Add data. If your cloud-storage connection already appears, select
             it. Otherwise, add a connection such as OneDrive:
              a. In the search box, enter OneDrive, and then select it.
              b. Select Add a connection.
              c. On the connection pane, select Connect.
              d. If prompted, enter your credentials.
           6. Under Choose an Excel file, find and select eventsignup.xlsx.
           7. Under Choose a table, select the check box for Schedule, and then select Connect.
           8. In the upper-right corner of the Data pane, select the close icon (X).
        Create the view screen
           1. On the command bar, select New screen > List.
             Power Apps adds a screen with default controls such as a search box and a Gallery control.
             The gallery covers the entire screen under the search box.
           2. At the top of the new screen, select the [Title] label control and rename it to View records.
           3. In Tree view, select BrowseGallery1.
           4. In the gallery's Properties pane, set Layout to Title, subtitle, and body.
           5. In the formula bar, replace CustomGallerySample with Schedule, and replace both
             instances of SampleText with Volunteer.
           6. On the right edge of the formula bar, select Expand formula bar, and then select Format
             text.
             The formula matches this example:
          powerfx
          SortByColumns(
              Search(
                  Schedule,
                  TextSearchBox1.Text,
                  "Volunteer"
              ),
              "Volunteer",
              If(
                  SortDescending1,
                  SortOrder.Descending,
                  SortOrder.Ascending
              )
          )
       7. In the Properties pane, select Edit next to Fields.
       8. In the Title2 box, select Volunteer. In the Subtitle2 box, select StartDay. In the Body1 box,
         select StartTime.
       9. In the upper-right corner of the Data pane, select the close icon (X).
         Users can now sort and filter the gallery by volunteer name based on the SortByColumns
         and Search functions in the formula.
            If a user types at least one letter in the search box, the gallery shows only records
            where the Volunteer field contains that text.
            If a user selects the sort button, the gallery sorts records in ascending or descending
            order based on the Volunteer field.
     For more information about these and other functions, see the formula reference.
     Create the change screen
       1. On the command bar, select New screen > Form.
       2. In Tree view, select EditForm1.
       3. In the Properties pane, select the down arrow next to Data source, and then select
         Schedule.
       4. Under the data source, select Edit fields.
       5. In the Fields pane, select Add field, select the check box for each field, and then select Add.
       6. Select the arrow next to each field name to collapse it, and then drag Volunteer to the top
        of the list.
       7. In the upper-right corner of the Fields pane, select the close icon (X).
       8. Set the Item property of the form to this expression in the formula bar:
         BrowseGallery1.Selected
       9. At the top of the screen, select the Label control, and then replace [Title] with Change
        records.
     Delete and rename screens
       1. In Tree view, select the ellipsis (...) for Screen1, and then select Delete.
       2. Select the ellipsis (...) for Screen2, select Rename, and then enter ViewScreen.
       3. Select the ellipsis (...) for Screen3, select Rename, and then enter ChangeScreen.
     Configure icons on the view screen
       1. Near the top of ViewScreen, select the circular arrow icon.
       2. Set the OnSelect property for that icon to this formula:
         Refresh(Schedule)
         When a user selects this icon, the app refreshes data from Schedule.
         For more information about this and other functions, see the formula reference.
       3. In the upper-right corner of ViewScreen, select the plus icon.
       4. Set the OnSelect property for that icon to this formula:
         NewForm(EditForm1);Navigate(ChangeScreen,ScreenTransition.None)
         When a user selects this icon, ChangeScreen opens with empty fields so that the user can
         create a record.
       5. Select the right-pointing arrow for the first record in the gallery.
       6. Set the OnSelect property for the arrow to this formula:
         EditForm(EditForm1); Navigate(ChangeScreen, ScreenTransition.None)
         When a user selects this icon, ChangeScreen opens with the selected record so that the
         user can edit or delete it.
     Configure icons on the change screen
       1. On ChangeScreen, select the X icon in the upper-left corner.
       2. Set the OnSelect property for that icon to this formula:
         ResetForm(EditForm1);Navigate(ViewScreen, ScreenTransition.None)
         When a user selects this icon, the app discards changes on this screen and returns to the
         view screen.
       3. In the upper-right corner, select the checkmark icon.
       4. Set the OnSelect property for the checkmark to this formula:
         SubmitForm(EditForm1); Navigate(ViewScreen, ScreenTransition.None)
         When a user selects this icon, the app saves changes and returns to the view screen.
       5. On the Insert tab, select Icons, and then select the Trash icon.
       6. Set the new icon's Color property to White and move it next to the checkmark icon.
       7. Set the Visible property for the trash icon to this formula:
         EditForm1.Mode = FormMode.Edit
         This icon appears only when the form is in Edit mode, not when it is in New mode.
       8. Set the OnSelect property for the trash icon to this formula:
         Remove(Schedule, BrowseGallery1.Selected); Navigate(ViewScreen, ScreenTransition.None)
         When a user selects this icon, the app deletes the selected record from the data source and
         opens the view screen.
     Test the app
       1. Select ViewScreen, and then select the preview play button to Preview the app.
       2. Type one or more letters in the search box to filter the list by volunteer name.
       3. Select the sort icon one or more times to sort the data in ascending or descending order by
         volunteer name.
       4. Add a record.
       5. Update the record that you added, and then save the changes.
       6. Update the record that you added again, and then cancel the changes.
       7. Delete the record that you added.
       8. Close Preview mode by pressing  Esc  or selecting the close icon in the upper-right corner.
     Next steps
         Press  Ctrl+S  to save your app in the cloud so that you can run it from other devices.
         Share the app so that other people can run it.
      Last updated on 05/20/2026
       Connect to Microsoft Translator from
       Power Apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Add the Microsoft Translator connector to display translated text in a Label control in
       your app. For example, you can create an input text box that asks the user to enter some
       text to translate. In another label, you can display the translated text.
       This topic shows you how to create the Microsoft Translator connection, use the
       Microsoft Translator connection in an app, and lists the available functions.
       Prerequisites
          Access to Power Apps
          Add the connection
          Create an app from a template, from data, or from scratch
       Connect to Microsoft Translator
         1. Create a blank canvas app.
         2. In the left-hand pane, select Data tab, and then select Add data source.
         3. Select New connection, and then select Microsoft Translator:
       4. Select Connect. Your connection appears under Data sources:
         Use the Microsoft Translator connection in your
         app
         Translate text
           1. From the Tree View on the left-side of the screen, select Insert, and then choose
             the Text input control. Rename the text input control to Source.
           2. Add a Drop down list (Insert menu > Controls), rename it to TargetLang, and
             move it below Source.
           3. Set the Items property of TargetLang to the following formula:
             MicrosoftTranslator.Languages()
                 4. Add a label, move it below TargetLang, and set its Text property to the following
                   formula:
                   MicrosoftTranslator.Translate(Source.Text, TargetLang.Selected.Value)
                 5. Type some text into Source, and select a language in TargetLang. The label shows
                   the text that you entered in the language you chose:
             Speak translated text
             If you haven't already, follow the steps in the previous section to translate some text.
             These next steps use the same controls.
                 1. Set the Items property of the TargetLang drop-down list to the following formula:
                   MicrosoftTranslator.SpeechLanguages()
                 2. Rename the second label (not the Source box) to Target.
                 3. Add an Audio control (Insert menu > Media), and set its Media property to the
                   following formula:
                   MicrosoftTranslator.TextToSpeech(Target.Text, TargetLang.Selected.Value)
                 4. Press F5, or select the Preview button (    ). Type some text into Source, select a
                   language in TargetLang, and then select the play button in the audio control.
                   The app plays an audio version of the text that you entered in the language you
                   chose.
                 5. Press Esc to return to the default workspace.
             Detect the source language
             These next steps use the same Source text input and Target text controls. You can create
             new controls if you prefer, just update the names in the formula.
                 1. Select the Target text control, and set the Text property to the following formula:
                 MicrosoftTranslator.Detect(Source.Text).Name
              2. Type some text into Source.
                 The label shows you the language of the text that you typed. For example, the
                 label shows French if you type bonjour, or Italian if you type ciao.
            View the available functions
            This connection includes the following functions:
             Function Name     Description
             Languages         Retrieves all languages that Microsoft Translator supports
             Translate         Translates text to a specified language using Microsoft Translator
             Detect            Detects source language of given text
             SpeechLanguages   Retrieves the languages available for speech synthesis
             TextToSpeech      Converts a given text into speech as an audio stream in wave format
            Languages
            Get languages: Retrieves all languages that Microsoft Translator supports
            Input properties
            None.
            Output properties
             Property Name            Data Type          Required        Description
             Code                     string             No
             Name                     string             No
            Translate
            Translate text: Translates text to a specified language using Microsoft Translator
            Input properties
             Name          Data   Required  Description
                           Type
             query         string yes       Text to translate
             languageTo    string yes       Target language code (example: 'fr')
             languageFrom  string no        Source language (if not provided, Microsoft Translator will
                                            try to auto-detect) (example: en)
             category      string no        Translation category (default: 'general')
            Output properties
            None.
            Detect
            Detect language: Detects source language of given text
            Input properties
             Name     Data Type      Required     Description
             query    string         yes          Text whose language will be identified
            Output properties
             Property Name            Data Type          Required        Description
             Code                     string             No
             Name                     string             No
            SpeechLanguages
            Get speech languages: Retrieves the languages available for speech synthesis
            Input properties
            None.
            Output properties
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             Code                        string             No
             Name                        string             No
            TextToSpeech
            Text to speech: Converts a given text into speech as an audio stream in wave format
            Input properties
             Name       Data Type    Required   Description
             query      string       yes        Text to convert
             language   string       yes        Language code to generate speech (example: 'en-us')
            Output properties
            None.
            Helpful links
            See all the available connections. 
            Learn how to add connections to your apps.
       Connect to Office 365 Outlook from
       Power Apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       If you connect to Office 365 Outlook, you can show, send, delete, and reply to email
       messages, in addition to other tasks.
       You can add controls to perform these functions in your app. For example, you can add
       Text input controls to ask for the recipient, the subject, and the body of the email, and
       add a Button control to send the email.
       This article shows you how to add Office 365 Outlook as a connection, add Office 365
       Outlook as a data source to your app, and use this data in different controls.
        ） Important
        As of this writing, the calendar operation doesn't support recurring events.
       Prerequisites
          Access to Power Apps
          Add the connection
          Create an app from a template, from data, or from scratch
       Connect to Office 365 Outlook
         1. Add a data connection and select Office 365 Outlook:
        2. Select Connect, and if prompted to sign in, enter your work account.
       The Office 365 Outlook connection has been created and added to your app. Now, it's
       ready to be used.
       Show messages
        1. On the Insert menu, select Gallery, and then select a Blank vertical control.
        2. Set its Items property to the following formula:
          Office365Outlook.GetEmails({fetchOnlyUnread:false})
          After changing the settings, change Layout to Title, Subtitle, Body.
          The gallery control is automatically populated with some of your emails.
        3. In the gallery, set the Text property of the first label to ThisItem.From. Set the
          second label to ThisItem.Subject. Set the third label to ThisItem.BodyPreview. You
          can also resize the labels.
          The gallery control is automatically populated with the new properties.
        4. This function has several optional parameters available. Set the gallery's Items
          property to one of the following formulas:
                   Office365Outlook.GetEmails({fetchOnlyUnread:false}) 
                   Office365Outlook.GetEmails({fetchOnlyUnread:false, top:2}) 
                   Office365Outlook.GetEmails({folderPath:"Sent Items", fetchOnlyUnread:false,
                   top:2}) 
                   Office365Outlook.GetEmails({folderPath:"Sent Items", fetchOnlyUnread:false,
                   top:2, searchQuery:"powerapps"}) 
                   Office365Outlook.GetEmails({folderPath:"Deleted Items", fetchOnlyUnread:false,
                   top:2, skip:3})
             Send a message
                 1. On the Insert menu, select Text, and then select Text input.
                 2. Repeat the previous step 2 more times so that you have three boxes, and then
                   arrange them in a column:
                 3. Rename the controls to:
                         inputTo
                         inputSubject
                         inputBody
                 4. On the Insert menu, select Controls, and then select Button. Set its OnSelect
                   property to the following formula:
                   Office365Outlook.SendEmail(inputTo.Text, inputSubject.Text, inputBody.Text)
                 5. Move the button so that it appears under all the other controls, and set its Text
                   property to "Send email".
                 6. Press F5, or select the Preview button (   ). Type in a valid email address in
                   inputTo, and type whatever you want in the other two Text input controls.
           7. Select Send email to send the message. Press Esc to return to the default
            workspace.
         Send a message with an attachment
         You can, for example, create an app in which the user takes pictures by using the
         device's camera and then sends them as attachments. Users can also attach many other
         kinds of files to an email app.
         To add an attachment to a message, follow the steps in the previous section, but add a
         parameter to specify an attachment (when you set the OnSelect property of the button).
         This parameter is structured as a table in which you specify up to three properties for
         each attachment:
            Name
            ContentBytes
            @odata.type
          ７ Note
          You can specify the @odata.type property for only one attachment, and you can set
          it to an empty string.
         In this example, a photo will be sent as file1.jpg:
         Office365Outlook.SendEmail(inputTo.Text, inputSubject.Text, inputBody.Text,
         {Attachments:Table({Name:"file1.jpg", ContentBytes:Camera1.Photo,
         '@odata.type':""})})
         In this example, an audio file will be sent in addition to the photo:
         Office365Outlook.SendEmail(inputTo.Text, inputSubject.Text, inputBody.Text,
         {Attachments:Table({Name:"file1.jpg", ContentBytes:Camera1.Photo,
         '@odata.type':""}, {Name:"AudioFile", ContentBytes:microphone1.audio })})
         Delete a message
           1. On the Insert menu, select Gallery, and then select a Text gallery control.
           2. Set its Items property to the following formula:
             Office365Outlook.GetEmails({fetchOnlyUnread:false})
                   The gallery control is automatically populated with some of your emails.
                 3. In the gallery, set the Text property of the first label to ThisItem.Id. Set the second
                   label to ThisItem.Subject. Set the third label to ThisItem.Body.
                 4. Select the first label in the gallery, and rename it to EmailID:
                 5. Select the third label in the gallery, and add a Button (Insert menu). Set the
                   button's OnSelect property to the following formula:
                   Office365Outlook.DeleteEmail(EmailID.Text)
                 6. Press F5, or select the Preview button (   ). Select one of the emails in your gallery,
                   and select the button.
                      ７ Note
                      This deletes the selected email from your inbox. So, choose wisely.
                 7. Press Esc to return to the default workspace.
             Mark a message as read
             This section uses the same controls as Delete a message.
                 1. Set the button's OnSelect property to the following formula:
                   Office365Outlook.MarkAsRead(EmailID.Text)
                 2. Press F5, or select the Preview button (   ). Select one of the unread emails, and
                   then select the button.
       3. Press Esc to return to the default workspace.
      See also
        For a list of all functions and their parameters, see the Office 365 Outlook
        reference.
        See all the available connections.
        Learn how to manage your connections.
       Connect to Office 365 Users connection
       from Power Apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Office 365 Users lets you access user profiles in your organization using your Office 365
       account. You can perform various actions such as get your profile, a user's profile, a
       user's manager or direct reports.
       You can display this information in a label on your app. You can display one function,
       multiple functions, or even combine different functions. For example, you can create an
       expression that combines the User Name and Phone Number, and then display this
       information in your app.
       This article shows you how to add Office 365 Users as a connection, add Office 365
       Users as a data source to your app, and use table data in a gallery control.
       Prerequisites
          Access to Power Apps
          Add the connection
          Create an app from a template, from data, or from scratch
       Add a connection
         1. Add a data connection and select Office 365 Users:
          2. Select Connect, and if prompted to sign in, enter your work account.
        The Office 365 Users connection has been created and added to your app. Now, it's
        ready to be used.
        Use the connection in your app
        Show information about the current user
          1. On the Insert menu, select Label
          2. In the function bar, set its Text property to any of the following formulas:
            Office365Users.MyProfile().City
            Office365Users.MyProfile().CompanyName
            Office365Users.MyProfile().Country
            Office365Users.MyProfile().Department
            Office365Users.MyProfile().DisplayName
            Office365Users.MyProfile().GivenName
           Office365Users.MyProfile().Id
           Office365Users.MyProfile().JobTitle
           Office365Users.MyProfile().Mail
           Office365Users.MyProfile().MailNickname
           Office365Users.MyProfile().mobilePhone
           Office365Users.MyProfile().OfficeLocation
           Office365Users.MyProfile().PostalCode
           Office365Users.MyProfile().Surname
           Office365Users.MyProfile().TelephoneNumber
           Office365Users.MyProfile().UserPrincipalName
           Office365Users.MyProfile().AccountEnabled
        The label shows the information that you entered about the current user.
        Show information about another user
          1. On the Insert menu, select Text, and then select Text input. Rename it InfoAbout:
          2. In InfoAbout, type or paste an email address of a user in your organization. For
           example, type in yourName@yourCompany.com.
          3. Add a Label (Insert menu), and set its Text property to any of the following
           formulas:
               To show information about another user:
               Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).City
               Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).CompanyName
               Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).Country
               Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).Department
               Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).DisplayName
               Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).GivenName
               Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).Id
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).JobTitle
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).Mail
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).MailNickname
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).mobilePhone
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).OfficeLocation
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).PostalCode
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).Surname
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).TelephoneNumber
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).UserPrincipalName
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).AccountEnabled
             Office365Users.UserProfile(InfoAbout.Text).BusinessPhones
            To show information about another user's manager:
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).City
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).CompanyName
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).Country
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).Department
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).DisplayName
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).GivenName
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).Id
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).JobTitle
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).Mail
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).MailNickname
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).mobilePhone
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).OfficeLocation
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).PostalCode
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).Surname
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).TelephoneNumber
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).UserPrincipalName
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).AccountEnabled
             Office365Users.Manager(InfoAbout.Text).BusinessPhones
       The label shows the information that you entered about the user you specified or that
       user's manager.
        ７ Note
          If you're developing an app based on a table in the Microsoft Dataverse, you can
          specify a user based on ID instead of email address.
         For example, you can create an app automatically, add a screen that contains a Label
         control, and set the control's Text property to this formula:
         Office365Users.UserProfile(BrowseGallery1.Selected.CreatedByUser).DisplayName
         If you create a contact and select that contact in the browse screen of the app, the Label
         control will show your display name.
         Show the direct reports of another user
           1. Add a Text input control (Insert menu > Text), and rename it InfoAbout.
           2. In InfoAbout, enter the email address of a user in your organization. For example,
            enter yourManagersName@yourCompany.com
           3. Add a With text gallery (Insert menu > Gallery), and set its Items property to the
            following formula:
            Office365Users.DirectReports(InfoAbout.Text)
            The gallery shows information about the direct reports of the user you entered.
            With the gallery selected, the right-hand pane shows options for that gallery.
           4. In the second list, select JobTitle. In the third list, select DisplayName. The gallery
            is updated to show these values.
          ７ Note
          The first box is actually an image control. If you don't have an image, you can
          delete the image control, and add a label in its place. Add and configure controls
          is a good resource.
         Search for users
           1. Add a Text input control (Insert menu > Text input).
           2. Select Insert > Vertical gallery.
           3. Change layout of the vertical gallery to Title, subtitle, and body.
         4. Select the arrow icon from first row inside the gallery, and delete it.
         5. Update the vertical gallery formula to the following.
            Power Fx
            Office365Users.SearchUserV2({searchTerm:TextInput1.Text,top:5}).value
          In the formula above, the search term references text entered in the text input
          control ("TextInput1" in this example); and the search results are limited to top 5.
         6. Update vertical gallery fields to show DisplayName in gallery title, JobTitle in
          subtitle, and Department in body.
         7. Play the app, and enter text inside the text input box. As you enter text, the results
          change based on the input string changes.
            View the available functions
            This connection includes the following functions:
                                                                              ﾉ
                                                                                 Expand table
             Function Name      Description
             DirectReports      Returns the direct reports for the specified user.
             Manager            Retrieves user profile for the manager of the specified user.
             MyProfile          Retrieves the profile for the current user.
             SearchUser         Retrieves search results of user profiles.
             Function Name      Description
             UserProfile        Retrieves a specific user profile.
            MyProfile
            Get my profile: Retrieves the profile for the current user.
            Input properties
            None.
            Output properties
                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
             Property Name            Type        Description
             City                     string      City of user.
             CompanyName              string      Company of user.
             Country                  string      Country of user.
             Department               string      Department of user.
             DisplayName              string      Display name of user.
             GivenName                string      Given name of user.
             Id                       string      User id.
             JobTitle                 string      Job title of user.
             Mail                     string      Email id of user.
             MailNickname             string      Nickname of user.
             mobilePhone              string      Mobile phone of user.
             OfficeLocation           string      Office location of user.
             PostalCode               string      Postal code of user.
             Surname                  string      Surname of user.
             TelephoneNumber          string      Telephone number of user.
              Property Name               Type          Description
              UserPrincipalName           string        User Principal Name.
              AccountEnabled              boolean       Account enabled flag.
              BusinessPhones              string        Phone numbers of user's company.
             UserProfile
             Get user profile: Retrieves a specific user profile.
             Input properties
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Name        Data Type         Required        Description
              Id          string            yes             User principal name or email id.
             Output properties
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Property Name               Type          Description
              City                        string        City of user.
              CompanyName                 string        Company of user.
              Country                     string        Country of user.
              Department                  string        Department of user.
              DisplayName                 string        Display name of user.
              GivenName                   string        Given name of user.
              Id                          string        User id.
              JobTitle                    string        Job title of user.
              Mail                        string        Email id of user.
              MailNickname                string        Nickname of user.
              Surname                     string        Surname of user.
             Property Name            Type         Description
             TelephoneNumber          string       Telephone number of user.
             UserPrincipalName        string       User Principal Name.
             AccountEnabled           boolean      Account enabled flag.
             BusinessPhones           string       Phone numbers of user's company.
            Manager
            Get manager: Retrieves user profile for the manager of the specified user.
            Input properties
                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
             Name       Data Type       Required      Description
             Id         string          yes           User principal name or email id.
            Output properties
                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
             Property Name            Type         Description
             City                     string       City of user.
             CompanyName              string       Company of user.
             Country                  string       Country of user.
             Department               string       Department of user.
             DisplayName              string       Display name of user.
             GivenName                string       Given name of user.
             Id                       string       User id.
             JobTitle                 string       Job title of user.
             Mail                     string       Email id of user.
             MailNickname             string       Nickname of user.
             Property Name            Type         Description
             mobilePhone              string       Mobile phone of user.
             OfficeLocation           string       Office location of user.
             PostalCode               string       Postal code of user.
             Surname                  string       Surname of user.
             TelephoneNumber          string       Telephone number of user.
             UserPrincipalName        string       User Principal Name.
             AccountEnabled           boolean      Account enabled flag.
             BusinessPhones           string       Phone numbers of user's company.
            DirectReports
            Get direct reports: Get direct reports.
            Input properties
                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
             Name       Data Type       Required      Description
             Id         string          yes           User principal name or email id.
            Output properties
                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
             Property Name            Type         Description
             City                     string       City of user.
             CompanyName              string       Company of user.
             Country                  string       Country of user.
             Department               string       Department of user.
             DisplayName              string       Display name of user.
             GivenName                string       Given name of user.
             Property Name            Type         Description
             Id                       string       User id.
             JobTitle                 string       Job title of user.
             Mail                     string       Email id of user.
             MailNickname             string       Nickname of user.
             mobilePhone              string       Mobile phone of user.
             OfficeLocation           string       Office location of user.
             PostalCode               string       Postal code of user.
             Surname                  string       Surname of user.
             TelephoneNumber          string       Telephone number of user.
             UserPrincipalName        string       User Principal Name.
             AccountEnabled           boolean      Account enabled flag.
             BusinessPhones           string       Phone numbers of user's company.
            SearchUser
            Search for users: Retrieves search results of user profiles.
            Input properties
                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
             Name       Data     Required  Description
                        Type
             searchTerm string   no        Search string. Applies to: display name, given name,
                                           surname, mail, mail nickname, and user principal name.
            Output properties
                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
             Property Name            Type         Description
             City                     string       City of user.
             Property Name            Type         Description
             CompanyName              string       Company of user.
             Country                  string       Country of user.
             Department               string       Department of user.
             DisplayName              string       Display name of user.
             GivenName                string       Given name of user.
             Id                       string       User id.
             JobTitle                 string       Job title of user.
             Mail                     string       Email id of user.
             MailNickname             string       Nickname of user.
             mobilePhone              string       Mobile phone of user.
             OfficeLocation           string       Office location of user.
             PostalCode               string       Postal code of user.
             Surname                  string       Surname of user.
             TelephoneNumber          string       Telephone number of user.
             UserPrincipalName        string       User Principal Name.
             AccountEnabled           boolean      Account enabled flag.
             BusinessPhones           string       Phone numbers of user's company.
            See also
                 See all the available connections.
                 Learn how to add connections to your apps.
            Feedback
                                         
            Was this page helpful? Yes      No
            Provide product feedback
         Connect to an Oracle database from Power
         Apps
         09/04/2025
         List tables, and create, read, update, and delete table rows in an Oracle database after you
         create a connection and build an app in Power Apps. The Oracle Database connection supports
         full delegation of filtering, sorting, and other functions but not triggers or stored procedures.
         Prerequisites
              Oracle 9 and later
              Oracle Data Access Client (ODAC) software 11.2 or later
              Installation of an on-premises data gateway
              Installation of the Oracle client SDK
         Install an on-premises data gateway
         To install a gateway, follow the steps in this tutorial.
         An on-premises data gateway acts as a bridge, providing quick and secure data transfer
         between on-premises data (data that isn't in the cloud) and the Power BI, Power Automate,
         Logic Apps, and Power Apps services. You can use the same gateway with multiple services and
         multiple data sources. For more information, see Understand gateways.
         Install Oracle client
         On the same computer as the on-premises data gateway, install ODAC 11.2 or later. For
         example, you can install 64-bit ODAC 12c Release 4 (12.1.0.2.4) for Windows x64    or choose a
         version that you prefer. You must choose a windows installer version since xcopy version does
         not work with on-premises data gateway. Otherwise, an error will appear if you try to create or
         use the connection, as the list of known issues describes.
         Create an app from a table in an Oracle database
            1. Go to Power Apps    .
            2. Select Create from the left-pane.
            3. Under Start from, select More data sources.
       4. Select New connection.
       5. In the list of connections, select Oracle Database.
       6. Specify the name of an Oracle server, a username, and a password.
        Specify a server in this format if an SID is required:
        ServerName/SID
       7. Select the gateway that you want to use, or install one.
        If your gateway doesn't appear after you install it, select Refresh gateway list.
       8. Select Create to create the connection.
      9. Select default dataset.
     10. In the list of tables, select the table that you want to use.
     11. Select Connect to create the app.
    Power Apps creates an app that has three screens and shows data from the table that you
    selected:
       BrowseScreen1, which lists all entries in the table.
       DetailScreen1, which provides more info about a single entry.
       EditScreen1, in which users can update an entry or create an entry.
     Next steps
        To save the app that you've generated, press Ctrl-S.
        To customize BrowseScreen1 (which appears by default), see Customize a layout.
        To customize DetailsScreen1 or EditScreen1, see Customize a form.
     Known issues, tips, and troubleshooting
       1. Can't reach the Gateway.
        This error appears if the on-premises data gateway can't connect to the cloud. To check
        the status of your gateway, sign in to powerapps.microsoft.com, select Gateways, and
        then select the gateway that you want to use.
        Make sure that your gateway is running and can connect to the Internet. Avoid installing
        the gateway on a computer that may be turned off or asleep. Also try restarting the on-
        premises data gateway service (PBIEgwService).
       2. System.Data.OracleClient requires Oracle client software version 8.1.7 or greater.
        This error appears if the Oracle client SDK isn't installed on the same computer as the on-
        premises data gateway. To resolve this issue, install the official provider.
       3. Table '[Tablename]' doesn't define any key columns.
       This error appears if you're connecting to a table that doesn't have a primary key, which
       the Oracle Database connection requires.
      4. Stored procedures, tables with composite keys, and nested object types in tables aren't
       directly supported in Power Apps. However, stored procedures using Power Automate are
       supported.
      5. Schema name dependency across environments.
       When connecting Power Apps to Oracle on-premises data sources, the schema prefix is
       treated as part of the table name. This means that the schema name must be exactly the
       same in every environment such as development, preproduction, and production. If you
       use different Oracle usernames or schemas in each environment, your app may not be
       able to find the tables during deployment—even if you update the connection references
       correctly. This will result in an Entity Not Found error.
       This limitation is by design: Power Apps does not currently support dynamic schema
       name substitution using environment variables. To prevent deployment failures, you
       should use the same Oracle schema name in all environments. Alternatively, you can
       consider solutions like Power Automate flows or Dataverse virtual entities, which provide
       more flexibility for managing environment-specific configurations.
         Connect to Power BI from Power Apps
         Article • 12/16/2022
         Power BI is a suite of business analytics tools to analyze data and share insights. Monitor
         your business and get answers quickly with rich dashboards available on every device. In
         your app, you can check the status of the data alerts that you have set up in the Power
         BI service. For more information on data alerts in Power BI, head to the documentation
         page.
         This topic shows you how to use the Power BI connection in an app, and lists the
         available functions.
           ７ Note
           The Power BI connection is not delegable.
         Prerequisites
             Sign up
             Add the Power BI connection
             Create an app from a template, from data, or from scratch
         Use the Power BI connection in your app
         List the alerts that you've set up in the Power BI service
           1. On the Insert menu, select Gallery, and add any of the Text galleries.
           2. To show the current user's alerts, set the Items property of the gallery to the
             following formula:
             PowerBI.GetAlerts()
         The gallery will update with the list of alerts. For each alert, you will receive the alert
         name, the ID number of the alert, and the ID of the group workspace in which the alert
              was configured. You will need the alert ID to get further information about the alert.
              View the status of an alert
              To view the status of the alert, call the CheckAlertStatus function with the alert ID
              obtained from the step above.
              The alert ID can be passed in either as a literal string (e.g. "1234") or as a reference to a
              gallery section populated using the GetAlerts() call (e.g. Gallery1.Selected.alertId)
              To proceed, add a label, and then set its Text property to one of these formulas:
                    PowerBI.CheckAlertStatus( /* alert ID that you received from GetAlert */
                   ).alertTitle
                    PowerBI.CheckAlertStatus( /* alert ID that you received from GetAlert */
                   ).currentTileValue
                    PowerBI.CheckAlertStatus( /* alert ID that you received from GetAlert */
                   ).alertThreshold
                    PowerBI.CheckAlertStatus( /* alert ID that you received from GetAlert */
                   ).isAlertTriggered
              The label will update with the current status of the alert.
              View the available functions
              This connection includes the following functions:
               Function Name           Description
               GetAlerts               List the alerts that you have set up in the Power BI service
               CheckAlertStatus        Check the status of a particular alert
              GetAlerts
              List the alerts that you have set up in the Power BI service.
              Input properties
              None.
               Output properties
                Property    Data     Required     Description
                Name        Type
                value       array    No           An array of the data alerts that you have set up in the Power BI
                                                  service. Each element in the array will include:
                                                        alertTitle: the title of the alert
                                                        alertId: the ID of the alert
                                                        groupId: the ID of the group that the alert was created in
               CheckAlertStatus
               Check the status of an alert.
                 ７ Note
                 Requests to this endpoint will be throttled on a per-alert basis if called too
                 frequently.
               Input properties
                Property Name        Data Type       Required     Description
                alertId              integer         Yes          The ID of the alert, as returned by GetAlerts
               Output properties
                Property Name       Data Type     Required     Description
                tileValue           number        No           The value of the tile when the alert was triggered
                tileUrl             string        No           URL for the tile that has the alert
                alertTitle          string        No           Name of the alert
                isAlertTriggered    boolean       No           Whether the alert is currently triggered
                alertThreshold      number        No           The threshold at which the alarm is triggered
               Helpful links
      See all the available connections. 
      Learn how to add connections to your apps.
             Connect to SharePoint from a canvas
             app
             Article • 03/14/2025
             There are different ways to connect to SharePoint in a canvas app:
                  Connect to a SharePoint site to generate an app automatically from a list.
                  Create a SharePoint connection before you add data to a new or existing app.
               ７ Note
               When you create or view a list in SharePoint, you're automatically redirected to
               Microsoft Lists. The list can always be found in both Microsoft Lists and SharePoint.
               Learn more in What is a list in Microsoft 365?  .
             Connect SharePoint to an app by creating an
             app
             If you have a SharePoint site with a SharePoint list, you can create an app in Power Apps
             through the list menu in Microsoft Lists.
             The Integrate > Power Apps > Create an app menu in Microsoft Lists takes you to
             Power Apps and builds an app using your list as a data source.
             Learn more in Create a canvas app with data from Microsoft Lists.
             Create a SharePoint connection
             If you build a new app or have an existing app, you can connect to SharePoint through
             the Data menu in Power Apps.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select More > Connections in the left navigation bar.
       3. Select + New connection and choose SharePoint. A popup appears.
       4. Choose either the cloud-services or on-premises option:
           To connect to SharePoint Online, select Connect directly (cloud services) and
           then Create. Provide credentials (if prompted).
           The connection is created, and you can add data to an existing app or build
           an app from scratch.
           To connect to an on-premises site, select Connect using on-premises data
           gateway.
           Choose Windows as the authentication type and add your credentials. If your
           credentials include a domain name, specify it as domain\alias.
             Under Choose a gateway, select the gateway that you want to use, and then
             select Create.
              ７ Note
              If you don't have an on-premises data gateway installed, install one, and
              then select the refresh icon for a list of gateways.
             The connection is created. You can add data to an existing app or build an
             app from scratch.
       Add data to an existing app
         1. In Power Apps Studio, open the app that you want to update, select Data on the
          left-pane.
         2. Select Add data > Connectors > SharePoint.
       3. A side panel opens. Under Connect to a SharePoint site, select an entry in the
        Recent sites list (or add your own URL), and then select Connect.
       4. Under Choose a list, select the check box for one or more lists, then select
        Connect:
         ７ Note
                   Power Apps supports lists, not template-based lists. If you don't see your list,
                   type the list name in Enter custom table name box.
                You see a confirmation banner that your data source was added to your app.
           Power Apps data type mappings
                                                                            ﾉ Expand table
             Power Apps  SharePoint
             Boolean     Yes/No (checkbox)
             DateTime    Date and Time
             Image       Hyperlink or Picture, Image
             Complex     Choice, Lookup, Person, Group, Task Outcome, External Data, Managed Metadata
             Number      Number, Currency, ID
             Text        Single line of text, Multiple lines of text, Calculated
              ７ Note
              SharePoint types that map to Power Apps as complex often have subfields that
              map to basic types such as text and number.
           Power Apps delegable functions and
           operations for SharePoint
           The following Power Apps operations, for a given data type, may be delegated to
           SharePoint for processing (rather than processing locally within Power Apps).
                                                                            ﾉ
                                                                                Expand table
              Operation/Function [1]      Number      Text     Boolean     DateTime     Complex [2]
              <, <=,<>, >, >=             Yes [3]     No       No          Yes          Yes
              =                           Yes         Yes      Yes         Yes          Yes
              Filter                      Yes         Yes      Yes         Yes          Yes
              IsBlank                     -           No [4]   -           -            No
              Lookup                      Yes         Yes      Yes         Yes          Yes
              Sort                        Yes         Yes      Yes         Yes          No
              SortByColumns               Yes         Yes      Yes         Yes          No
              StartsWith                  -           Yes      -           -            Yes
              UpdateIf/RemoveIf [5]       Yes         No       -           -            No
             Notes
                1. Expressions that are joined with And or Or are delegable to SharePoint. Not won't
                  delegate. SharePoint system fields don't generally delegate. These fields include:
                        Identifier
                  IsFolder
                  Thumbnail
                  Link 
                  Name
                  FilenameWithExtension
                  Path
                  FullPath
                  ModerationStatus
                  ModerationComment
                  ContentType
                  IsCheckedOut
                  VersionNumber
                  TriggerWindowStartToken
                  TriggerWindowEndToken
                2. SharePoint supports delegation of complex types by deferring the decision for
                  delegation to the subfield involved. Check the type of the subfield being used on
                  the complex type and then check this table for delegation capabilities. Only Email
                  and DisplayName are delegable in the Person data type.
                 3. SharePoint ID fields are shown as a number field in Power Apps. However, the
                    underlying type is actually Text. SharePoint only supports the equal ('=') operation
                    for delegation on an ID field. Relational operations such as <, <=,<>, >, >= won't
                    work on a SharePoint ID field.
                 4. A formula such as Filter(..., IsBlank(CustomerId)) won't delegate to SharePoint.
                    However, that formula is semantically close to Filter(..., CustomerId = Blank()), will
                    delegate to SharePoint. These formulas aren't equivalent because the second
                    formula won't treat the empty string ("") as empty. However, the second formula
                    might work for your purposes. On SharePoint, this approach works for the 'equals'
                    operator ("=") but not the operator for 'not equals' ("<>").
                 5. UpdateIf and RemoveIf work locally but simulate delegation to a limit of 500/2000
                    records. They successively bring down records beyond the non-delegation
                    500/2000 record limit. Records that meet the If condition are collected. Generally, a
                    maximum of 500/2000 records are collected separately and then changed per
                    execution. However, more records may be updated if the existing local data cache
                    is large as the function may have access to more records for evaluation.
              Related information
                    Learn more about working with lists in Power Apps in Integrate SharePoint Online
                    into Power Apps overview
                    Move SharePoint Custom Forms with Power Apps (white paper)
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
             Connect to SQL Server from Power Apps
             overview
             Article • 03/14/2025
             There are different ways to connect to data in SQL Server in your app, using Power Fx
             formulas. You can access data directly or use a view or stored procedures to create,
             update, or delete data in your app.
             Prerequisites
             To access data directly, you can create a Start with data app for your SQL Server data.
             This method lets you get a basic, working app that you can modify with views and
             stored procedures.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps   and go to the Apps page.
                2. Select New app > Start with data.
                3. From the Start with data page, choose Connect external data.
                4. Under Choose a data set to start select From SQL.
                  If you have an existing SQL Server connection, it loads.
                    ７ Note
           If you don't already have a SQL Server connection, you're prompted to create
           one.
        5. Select your SQL connection.
        6. Enter your Server name and Database name, then choose Connect. Choose a table
          from the list of tables that appear.
           ７ Note
           Only one connection is shown at a time. To use a different connection, select
           the ... overflow menu on your SQL connection, then find a new one or create a
           new SQL connection.
        7. Select Create app.
       Access data
       Once your app is connected to SQL Server, you can access data: Access data in SQL
       Server.
              View results
              To view the results of your SQL queries, see: View results in SQL Server.
              Power Apps data type mappings
                                                                                             ﾉ
                                                                                                 Expand table
               SQL Server                                                                         Power
                                                                                                  Apps
                bigint, decimal, int, money, numeric, smallint, smallmoney, tinyint, float,       Number
                real
                char, nchar, varchar, nvarchar, text, ntext                                       Text
                bit                                                                               Boolean
                date, datetime, datetime2, smalldatetime, datetimeoffset, time                    DateTime
                uniqueidentifier                                                                  Guid
                 ７ Note
                 If a SQL Server data type doesn't appear in the previous table, that data type isn't
                 supported. Unsupported data types include the following examples: binary(),
                 varbinary(), image, cursor, rowversion, hierarchyid, sql_variant xml, Spatial
                 Geometry Types, Spatial Geography Types, and table. Also, 'tinyint' and 'smallint'
                 are not supported as primary keys.
              Power Apps functions and operations
              delegable to SQL Server
              Power Apps can delegate Power Fx query operations (for example, Filter) to the back-
              end data source for processing. Delegation allows the back-end data service (for
              example, SQL Server) to do the filtering work so that only a few records must be
              transferred to your device.
              This table shows which operations are delegable to SQL Server by data type. Expressions
              joined with And, Or, and Not are delegable.
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Operation or function          Number       Text       Boolean      DateTime       Guid
               *, +, -, /                    Yes          -          -            No             -
               <, <=, >, >=                  Yes          No         No           Yes            -
               =, <>                         Yes          Yes        Yes          Yes            Yes
               Average                       Yes          -          -            -              -
               EndsWith                      -            Yes [1]    -            -              -
               Filter                        Yes          Yes        Yes          Yes [2]        Yes
               In (substring)                -            Yes [3]    -            -              -
               IsBlank [4]                   No           No         No           No             No
               Len (length)                  -            Yes [5]    -            -              -
               Lookup                        Yes          Yes        Yes          Yes            Yes
               Max                           Yes          -          -            No             -
               Min                           Yes          -          -            No             -
               Search                        No           Yes        No           No             -
               Sort                          Yes          Yes        Yes          Yes            -
               SortByColumns                 Yes          Yes        Yes          Yes            -
               StartsWith                    -            Yes [6]    -            -              -
               Sum                           Yes          -          -            -              -
               UpdateIf, RemoveIf [7]        Yes          Yes        Yes          Yes            Yes
             Notes
                1. Supported for (EndsWith(\<column>, "string value")) but not for
                   (EndsWith("string value", \<column>)). If a char(10) column has a value of
                   "hello", EndsWith(\<column>, "llo") returns false, by design. A char(10) column
                   has 10 characters.
                2. Direct date filters don't work for SQL Server with an on premise Data Gateway.
                   However, you can create a calculated column that works. For example, you can
                    create:
                    ALTER TABLE myTable ADD DateAsInt AS (YEAR([date]) * 10000 + MONTH([date]) *
                    100 + DAY([date]))
                    And then filter on the calculated number column.
                 3. Supported for ("string value" in \<column>), but not for (\<column> in "string
                    value").
                 4. An expression such as Filter('[dbo].[MyOrders]', !IsBlank(CustomerId)) won't
                    delegate to the server. However, you can use an expression such as Filter('[dbo].
                    [MyOrders]', CustomerId <> Blank()), which does delegate to the server and is
                    semantically close. The difference is that the second expression won't treat the
                    empty string ("") as empty. Although the expressions aren't equivalent, the latter
                    might work for your purposes. You can't use this method for the Guid data type.
                 5. Power Apps delegates the Len function, but the behavior might not work as you
                    expect. In SQL Server, a char(10) column with value "hello" always has a length of
                    10. However, Power Apps treats that string as having a length of 5, which may
                    cause discrepancies and confusion. Don't use char/nchar on SQL server, but use
                    varchar/nvarchar instead.
                 6. Supported for (StartsWith(\<column>, "string value")), but not for
                    (StartsWith("string value", \<column>))
                 7. UpdateIf and RemoveIf work locally but simulate delegation to a limit of 500/2000
                    records. They successively bring down records beyond the non-delegation
                    500/2000 record limit. Records that meet the If condition are collected. Generally, a
                    maximum of 500/2000 records are collected separately and then changed per
                    execution. However, more records may be updated if the existing local data cache
                    is large as the function may have access to more records for evaluation.
              Related information
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
     Use Microsoft SQL Server securely with
     Power Apps
     Article • 05/21/2025
     There are different ways to connect and authenticate to SQL Server with Power Apps. This
     article outlines concepts that can be helpful in making a choice about how to connect to SQL
     Server with a security approach that matches requirements for your app.
       ） Important
       The secure implicit connections feature was released in January 2024. Microsoft strongly
       encourages all apps currently using implicit connections to convert to secure implicit
       connections and to revoke connections shared with end users.
     Difference between explicit, implicit, and secure
     implicit connections
     A connection to SQL Server is created whenever you create an app using Power Apps
     connecting to SQL Server. When such apps are published and shared with others, both the app
     and the connection are deployed to those users. In other words, the app and the connection—
     both are visible to users the apps is shared with.
     The authentication method used for such connections can be explicit or implicit. We can also
     say such connection is shared explicitly or implicitly.
        An explicitly shared connection means that the end user of the application must
        authenticate to SQL Server with their own explicit credentials. Usually this authentication
        happens behind the scenes as part of Microsoft Entra or Windows authentication
        handshake. The user doesn’t even notice when the authentication takes place.
        An implicitly shared connection means that the user implicitly uses the credentials of the
        account that the app maker used to connect and authenticate to the data source during
        while creating the app. The end user’s credentials are not used to authenticate. Each time
        the end user runs the app, they're using the credentials the author created the app with.
        A secure implicitly shared connection refers to a scenario where the end user of the app
        implicitly uses the credentials of the account that the app maker used to connect and
        authenticate to the data source while creating the app. This means that the end user's
        own credentials are not used to authenticate. Instead, when the user runs the app, they
        are using the credentials that the author of the app created it with. It is important to note
               that the end user is not provided with direct access to the connection, and the app only
               allows access to a limited set of actions and tables.
          The following four connection authentication types can be used with SQL Server for Power
          Apps:
                                                                                            ﾉ
                                                                                               Expand table
           Authentication Type                                 Power Apps connection method
           Microsoft Entra Integrated                          Explicit
           SQL Server Authentication                           Implicit / Secure Implicit
           Windows Authentication                              Implicit / Secure Implicit
           Windows Authentication (nonshared)                  Explicit
          Implicit connection sharing risks
          All new applications automatically use the new secure implicit connections. However, with apps
          that use the older 'implicit connections', both the app and its connections are deployed to end
          users, it means that end users can author new applications based on those connections.
          When an author uses secure implicit connections, it means that no connection is shared and
          no end user receives the connection object. This eliminates the risk of an end-user author
          reusing a connection to create a new app. Instead, the app works with a proxy connection that
          is aware of the app and only communicates with that specific app. The proxy connection allows
          limited actions (create, read, update, delete) and access to specific tables in the app that are
          defined when the app is published. Therefore, only authorized actions and access are granted
          to the end user.
          The older style simple implicit connection actually distributes a connection object to the end
          user. For example, if you create an app that filters out the data you don’t want users to see. But,
          the filtered out data is present in the database. But you're relying on the filter you configured
          to ensure the end users won’t see certain data.
          Again, with older style simple implicit connections, after you deploy the app, end users can use
          the connection deployed with your app in any new apps they create. In the new apps, users can
          see the data you filtered out in your application. It's important to use the new secure implicit
          connections.
            ） Important
       Once an older implicitly shared connection is deployed to end users, the restrictions you
       may have put in the app you shared (such as filters or read-only access) are no longer
       valid for new apps end users create. The end users will have whatever rights the
       authentication allows as part of implicitly shared connection. Therefore, when you convert
       an app to use secure implicit connections, you must also revoke the connections you
       shared with your app. Admins can get a report of apps with implicitly shared connections
       with the COE toolkit.
     Client and server security
     You can't rely on the security of data through filtering or other client-side operations to be
     secure. Applications that require secure filtering of data must ensure that both the user
     identification and filtering happens on the server.
     Use services such as Microsoft Entra ID instead of relying on the filters designed within the
     apps when it comes to user identity and security. This configuration ensures server-side filters
     work as expected.
     The following illustrations explain how the security patterns within the apps differ between
     client-side and server-side security models.
    In a client security app pattern, [1] the user only authenticates to the application on the client
    side. Then [2] the application requests information of the service, and [3] the service returns the
    information solely based on the data request.
    In a server-side security pattern, [1] the user first authenticates to the service so the user is
    known to the service. Then, [2] when a call is made from the application, the service [3] uses
    the known identity of the current user to filter the data appropriately and [4] returns the data.
    The implicit departmental sharing scenarios described above is combination of these two
    patterns. The user must log in to the Power Apps service using Microsoft Entra credentials. This
    behavior is the server security app pattern. The user is known using the Microsoft Entra identity
    on the service. Hence, the app is restricted to the set of users to which Power Apps has formally
    shared the application.
    However, the implicit shared connection to SQL Server is the client security app pattern. SQL
    Server only knows that a specific user name and password is used. Any client-side filtering, for
    instance, can be bypassed with a new application using the same user name and password.
    To securely filter data on the server side, use built-in security features in SQL Server such as row
    level security for rows, and the deny permissions to specific objects (such as columns) to
    specific users. This approach uses the Microsoft Entra user identity to filter the data on the
    server.
    Some existing corporate services have used an approach where the user identity is captured in
    a business data layer much in the same way that Microsoft Dataverse does. In this case, the
    business layer may or may not use SQL Server’s row level security and deny features directly. If
    it doesn't, it's often the case that the security is enabled using stored procedures or views.
    The business layer (on the server side) uses a known user Microsoft Entra identity to invoke a
    stored procedure as a SQL Server principal and filter the data. However, Power Apps doesn't
    currently connect to stored procedures. A business layer may also invoke a view that uses the
    Microsoft Entra identity as a SQL Server principal. In this case, use Power Apps to connect to
    the views so that the data is filtered on the server-side. Exposing only views to users may need
    Power Automate flows for updates.
    See also
    Overview of connectors for canvas apps
     Access data in SQL Server
     06/21/2025
     Add a data source
     Direct access:
     If you select the Start with data option when you create an app, the Items property of your
     gallery uses a Power Fx formula with a data source name that points directly to your database
     table.
     For example, if you have a BOOKLENDING table, you see this formula:
       Power Fx
       Search([@'[dbo].[BOOKLENDING]'], SearchInput1.Text, author, 
       author,book_name,category)
     Views and stored procedures:
     A common professional data access pattern is to use views and then stored procedures for
     create, update, and delete instead of allowing direct access. If you want to use views or stored
     procedures, change the example formula. Similarly, the form for the record doesn't use the
     built-in direct approach of the SubmitForm() formula.
     Triggers:
     One database pattern is to use triggers on tables. If a table has a trigger, you can't use the
     direct pattern Submit() for create, update, and delete. Submit() conflicts with SQL trigger
     handling and the built-in Power Apps behavior, which use the same output parameter.
     You can directly access the table for queries, but to handle Create, Update, or Delete, call a
     stored procedure.
       ７ Note
       The SQL Server connector, like all connectors that work with relational data, assumes that
       tables have a primary key. A primary key is critical for finding specific records to update. If
       a SQL Server table doesn't have a primary key, the data is read-only. If you have access
       and edit rights to the SQL Server table, consider adding an auto-generated key.
     Use a view
     A view is a saved query that shows as a single table of data.
     Views appear in the list of tables you can select when you add a data source. Views only
     support queries—not updates. To update data, use a stored procedure.
     If you create a table with the Start with data option, you get screens and formulas that show
     records in a gallery and form. You see formulas and functionality for creating, editing, and
     deleting records. But if you use a view, you only see a display screen for the gallery and form.
     You might want autogenerated screens from Start with data for views.
     To use this autogenerated option:
       1. Choose Start with data with a basic table.
       2. Delete and replace the table data source.
     Example:
     For example, if you have a BOOKLENDINGVIEW table and add it as a data source for Power Apps,
     the formula can be as simple as:
       Power Fx
       BOOKLENDINGVIEW
     You can also replace other create, update, and delete formulas with a view data source and
     calls to stored procedures.
     Use stored procedures
     When you add a SQL Server connection to your app, you can add stored procedures and call
     them directly in Power Fx.
       ７ Note
       This feature also works with secure, implicit connections.
    After you select a stored procedure, a child node appears, and you can designate the stored
    procedure as Safe to use for galleries and tables.
    A stored procedure is safe if it doesn't perform any action that might be unwanted in certain
    scenarios. For example, if a stored procedure collects all accounts from a given city and then
    sends them an email, you might not always want emails sent every time the stored procedure
    is called. In that case, don't mark the stored procedure as safe.
    Check a stored procedure as safe only if:
      1. There are no side effects to calling this procedure on demand.
       You can call the procedure multiple times or whenever Power Apps refreshes the control.
       When you use it with an Items property of a gallery or table, Power Apps calls the stored
       procedure whenever the system determines a refresh is needed. You can't control when
       the stored procedure is called.
      2. The stored procedure returns a modest amount of data.
       Action calls, like stored procedures, don't have a limit on the number of rows retrieved.
       They aren't automatically paged in 100-record increments like tabular data sources such
       as tables or views.
       If the stored procedure returns too much data (many thousands of records), your app
       might slow down or crash. For performance reasons, bring in fewer than 2,000 records.
      If you check a stored procedure as safe, you can assign it as an Items property in galleries or
      tables in your app.
       ） Important
       The schema of the return values of the stored procedure should be static, so the values
       don't change from call to call. For example, if a stored procedure returns two tables, it
       always returns two tables. You can work with either specific or dynamic results.
       The structure of the results also needs to be static. For example, if the schema of the
       results is dynamic, then results are dynamic and you must provide a specific type to use
       them in Power Apps. For more information, see dynamic results.
      SQL namespace prepended to stored procedure name
      The SQL Server namespace name, where you store the procedure, is added to the start of the
      stored procedure name. For example, all stored procedures in the 'DBO' SQL Server namespace
      have 'dbo' at the start of the name.
      For example, when you add a stored procedure, you might see more than one data source in
      your project.
      Calling a stored procedure
      To use a stored procedure in Power Apps, add the connector name before the stored
      procedure name, such as Paruntimedb.dbonewlibrarybook.
       ７ Note
        When Power Apps brings in the stored procedure, it combines the namespace and
        procedure name so that dbo.newlibrarybook becomes dbonewlibrarybook.
      Arguments are passed as a Power Apps record with named value pairs:
        Power Fx
        <datasourceName>.<StoredprocedureName>({<paramName1: value, paramName2: value, ... 
        >})
         Tip
        Convert values if needed as you pass them into your stored procedure, since you're
        reading from a text value in Power Apps. For example, if you're updating an integer in
        SQL, convert the text in the field using Value().
      Here's an example of what stored procedures could look like when assigning them to an
      OnSelect property.
      Variables and all stored procedures
      Access a stored procedure for the Items property of a gallery after you declare it safe for the
      UI. Reference the data source name and the name of the stored procedure followed by
      ResultSets. Access multiple results by referencing the set of tables returned, such as Table 1,
      Table 2, and so on.
      For example, a stored procedure from the table Paruntimedb with the name
      dbo.spo_show_all_library_books() looks like this:
        Power Fx
        Paruntimedb.dbospshowalllibrarybooks().ResultSets.Table1
      This query populates the gallery with records. However, stored procedures are action behaviors
      on the tabular model. Refresh() only works with tabular data sources and doesn't work with
      stored procedures. Refresh the gallery when a record is created, updated, or deleted.
        ７ Note
        When you use a Submit() on a form for a tabular data source, it effectively calls Refresh()
        under the hood and updates the gallery.
      Use a variable to populate and refresh the gallery
      Use a variable in the OnVisible property for the screen, and set the stored procedure to the
      variable.
        Power Fx
        Set(SP_Books, Paruntimedb.dbospshowalllibrarybooks().ResultSets.Table1);
      You can then set the Items property of the gallery to the variable name.
        Power Fx
        SP_Books
      After you create, update, or delete a record with a call to the stored procedure, set the variable
      again to refresh the gallery.
        Power Fx
        Paruntimedb.dbonewlibrarybook({   
          book_name: DataCardValue3_2.Text, 
          author: DataCardValue1_2.Text,
            ...
        });
        Set(SP_Books, Paruntimedb.dbospshowalllibrarybooks().ResultSets.Table1);
      Use Power Automate to call stored procedures
    Power Automate handles asynchronous actions best. Call stored procedures as part of a series
    of calls in a business process.
    To call Power Automate and then call stored procedures, create input variables as part of your
    flow.
    Then pass your input variables into the call of your stored procedure.
    Add this Power Automate flow to your app and call it. Pass optional arguments as a record “{ …
    }”. The following example includes all optional arguments.
         View results in SQL Server
         06/21/2025
         If you use a direct table access pattern or a view, the query result binds to the control or table.
         Power Fx automatically lets your app page data into the gallery or table. However, stored
         procedures can return a query result, a return code, or values from Out parameters.
         To use these different result types in your app, follow these patterns.
         Formulas for different controls
         Here are typical formulas for views and stored procedures:
                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
           Control     Property    Formula                       Description
           Gallery or  Items       DataSource                    You can further refine the table or view
           Table                                                 data source with a Filter and a StartsWith.
                                                                 The other generated query clauses are
                                                                 appended to the existing query.
           Form        DataSource  DataSource                    The table or view data source.
           Submit      OnSelect    DataSource.dboSPName({        The first DataSource in this formula is the
           button on               args}); Refresh               stored procedure data source, which holds
           a form                                                your stored procedure. The DataSource in
                                   (‘DataSource’)
                                                                 the refresh formula is the view data source.
           Delete      OnSelect    SP DataSource.dboSPName({     The first DataSource in this formula is the
           button on                                             stored procedure data source, which holds
                                   args}); Refresh (‘View
           a form                                                your stored procedure. The          in
                                                                                          DataSource
                                   DataSource’)
                                                                 the refresh formula is the view data source.
         Return code
         Use this return code to get the result of a return statement.
            Power Fx
            <datasourceName>.<StoredprocedureName>({<paramName1: value, paramName2: value, ... 
            >}).ReturnCode
      Output parameters
      Use the parameter name as it appears in the JSON payload.
       Power Fx
       <datasourceName>.<StoredprocedureName>({<paramName1: value, paramName2: value, ... 
       >}).OutputParameters.<parameterName>
      Result Sets
      You can use other tables by their name, like Table1, Table2, or Table3.
       Power Fx
       <datasourceName>.<StoredprocedureName>({<paramName1: value, paramName2: value, ... 
       >}).ResultSets.Table1
      Dynamic results
      Some complicated stored procedures return dynamic results. This result is common for stored
      procedures that use temporary tables. Power Apps can't easily determine the results ahead of
      time. So, the return is marked as dynamic and you can't access these results directly. First,
      provide a type.
      You can access the data with the following data access example pattern.
      Data access example
        1. Pull the results into a variable named MyDynamicValue.
        2. Pull Table1 from that variable and put it into a variable named table1.
           Tip
          This step isn't strictly necessary. It's useful, though, to put all the results in a variable
          and then pull out the parts you need later.
        3. Iterate through table1 and extract the JSON elements as named value pairs.
        4. Match the names with those returned in the JSON payload.
       5. To validate, open Power Apps monitor and look at the body section of the data node for a
        record.
       Power Fx
       Set(
           <MyDynamicValue>, // pull results into variable
           <datasourceName>.<StoredprocedureName>( 
             { <paramName1>: "someString" }
           ).ResultSets
       );
       Set(
           table1, // put Table1 into table1
           <MyDynamicValue>.Table1
       );
       Set(
           TypedTable,
           ForAll(
               table1, // extract JSON from table1
               {
                   BookID: Value(ThisRecord.BookID),
                   BookName: Text(ThisRecord.BookName)
               }
           )
       );
       Connect to Twitter from Power Apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Twitter lets you post tweets and get tweets, timeline, friends, and followers from your
       Twitter account.
       You can display this information in a label on your app. For example, you can add an
       input text box, ask the user to enter in some Tweet text, and then add a button that
       "posts" the tweet. You can use similar methods to get a tweet or search for a tweet, and
       then display the text in a label or gallery control in your app.
       This topic shows you how to create the Twitter connection, use the Twitter connection in
       an app, and lists the available functions.
       Prerequisites
          Access to Power Apps
          Add the connection
          Create an app from a template, from data, or from scratch
       Connect to Twitter
         1. Start by creating a blank canvas app.
         2. In the left-hand pane, select Data > Add data.
         3. Select New connection, and then select Twitter:
         4. Select from the default shared application, or choose to bring your own
          application (along with Consumer Key/Consumer Secret).
         5. Select Connect.
         6. Choose , enter your Twitter sign in credentials, and then select Authorize app.
         7. Select Add Data Source. Your connection appears under Data sources: 
       The Twitter connection has been created, and added to your app. Now, it's ready to be
       used.
       Use the Twitter connection in your app
        Show a timeline
          1. On the Insert menu, select Gallery, and add any of the With text galleries.
          2. Let's show some timelines:
               To show the current user's timeline, set the Items property of the gallery to
               the following formulas:
               Twitter.HomeTimeline().TweetText 
               Twitter.HomeTimeline({maxResults:3}).TweetText
               To show another user's timeline, set the Items property of the gallery to the
               following formula:
               Twitter.UserTimeline( *TwitterHandle* ).TweetText
               Enter a Twitter handle in double quotation marks or an equivalent value. For
               example, enter "satyanadella" or "powerapps" directly in the formula
               expression.
               Add a text input control named Tweep, and set its Default property to
               Tweep.Text. In the Tweep text box, type in a Twitter handle such as
               satyanadella (without quotation marks and without the @ symbol).
               In the gallery control, set the Items property to the following formula:
               Twitter.UserTimeline(Tweep.Text, {maxResults:5}).TweetText
               The gallery control automatically shows the tweets of the Twitter handler you
               type in.
                 Tip
                Some of these formulas use the maxResults argument to show the x
                number of most recent tweets in a timeline.
          3. Set the gallery's Items property to Twitter.HomeTimeline().
           With the gallery selected, the right-hand pane shows options for that gallery.
          4. Select TweetText in the first list, select TweetedBy in the second list, and select
           CreatedAt in the third list.
           The gallery now shows the values of the properties you chose.
        Show followers
          1. Using a With text gallery, let's show some followers:
              To show the current user's followers, set the Items property of the gallery to
              the following formula:
              Twitter.MyFollowers() 
              Twitter.MyFollowers({maxResults:3})
              To show another user's followers, set the Items property of the gallery to the
              following formula:
              Twitter.Followers( *TwitterHandle* )
              Enter a Twitter handle in double quotation marks or an equivalent value. For
              example, enter "satyanadella" or "powerapps" directly in the formula
              expression.
              Add a text input control named Tweep, and set its Default property to
              Tweep.Text. In the Tweep text box, type in a Twitter handle such as
              satyanadella (without quotation marks and without the @ symbol).
              In the gallery control, set the Items property to the following formula:
              Twitter.Followers(Tweep.Text, {maxResults:5})
              The gallery control automatically shows who is following the Twitter handle
              you type in.
                 Tip
                Some of these formulas use the maxResults argument to show the x
                number of most recent tweets in a timeline.
          2. Set the gallery's Items property to Twitter.MyFollowers().
           With the gallery selected, the right-hand pane shows options for that gallery.
          3. Select UserName in the second list, and select FullName in the third list.
           The gallery now shows the values of the properties you chose.
        Show followed users
          1. Using a With text gallery, let's show some followed users:
               To show which users the current user is following, set the Items property of
               the gallery to the following formula:
               Twitter.MyFollowing() 
               Twitter.MyFollowing({maxResults:3})
               To show which users another user is following, set the Items property of the
               gallery to the following formula:
               Twitter.Following( *TwitterHandle* )
               Enter a Twitter handle in double quotation marks or an equivalent value. For
               example, enter "satyanadella" or "powerapps" directly in the formula
               expression.
               Add a text input control named Tweep, and set its Default property to
               Tweep.Text. In the Tweep text box, type in a Twitter handle such as
               satyanadella (without quotation marks and without the @ symbol).
               In the gallery control, set the Items property to the following formula:
               Twitter.Following(Tweep.Text, {maxResults:5})
               The gallery control automatically shows the other handles you are following.
               With the gallery selected, the right-hand pane shows options for that gallery.
          2. Select Description in the Body1 list, UserName in the Heading1 list, and FullName
           in the Subtitle1 list.
           The gallery now shows the values of the properties you chose.
        Show information about a user
        Add a label, and then set its Text property to one of these formulas:
           twitter.User( *TwitterHandle* ).Description
           twitter.User( *TwitterHandle* ).FullName
           twitter.User( *TwitterHandle* ).Location
           twitter.User( *TwitterHandle* ).UserName
           twitter.User( *TwitterHandle* ).FollowersCount
           twitter.User( *TwitterHandle* ).FriendsCount
            twitter.User( *TwitterHandle* ).Id
            twitter.User( *TwitterHandle* ).StatusesCount
        Enter a Twitter handle in double quotation marks or an equivalent value. For example,
        enter "satyanadella" or "powerapps" directly in the formula expression.
        Or, you can use an input text control to type in a Twitter handle, just as we have
        throughout this topic.
        Search tweets
          1. Using a With text gallery, set its Items property to the following formula:
            Twitter.SearchTweet( *SearchTerm* ).TweetText
           Enter a SearchTerm in double quotation marks or by referring to an equivalent
           value. For example, enter "PowerApps" or "microsoft" directly in the formula.
           Or, you can use an Input text control to specify a search term, just as we have
           throughout this topic.
              Tip
             Show the first five results by using maxResults:
            Twitter.SearchTweet(SearchTerm.Text, {maxResults:5}).TweetText
          2. Set the gallery's Items property to Twitter.SearchTweet(SearchTerm.Text,
           {maxResults:5}).
           With the gallery selected, the right-hand pane shows options for that gallery.
          3. Select TweetText in the first list, TweetedBy in the second list, and CreatedAt in the
           third list.
           The gallery now shows the values of the properties you chose.
        Send a tweet
          1. Add a text input control, and then rename it MyTweet.
          2. Add a button, and then set its OnSelect property to the following formula: 
            Twitter.Tweet("",{tweetText: MyTweet.Text})  
           Example: Twitter.Tweet("",{tweetText:"Sample tweet!"})
                 3. Press F5, or select the Preview button (    ). Type some text into MyTweet, and
                   then select the button to tweet the text that you entered.
                 4. Press Esc to return to the default workspace.
             View the available functions
             This connection includes the following functions:
               Function        Description
               Name
               UserTimeline    Retrieves a collection of the most recent tweets posted by the specified user
               HomeTimeline    Retrieves the most recent tweets and re-tweets posted me and my followers
               SearchTweet     Retrieves a collection of relevant tweets matching a specified query
               Followers       Retrieves users following the specified user
               MyFollowers     Retrieves users who are following me
               Following       Retrieves users who the specified user is following
               MyFollowing     Retrieves users that I am following
               User            Retrieves details about the specified user (example: user name, description,
                               followers count, etc.)
               Tweet           Tweet
               OnNewTweet      Triggers a workflow when a new tweet is posted which matches your search
                               query
             UserTimeline
             Get user timeline: Retrieves a collection of the most recent tweets posted by the
             specified user
             Input properties
               Name        Data Type    Required   Description
               userName    string       yes        Twitter handle
               maxResults  integer      no         Maximum number of tweets to retrieve, e.g. {maxResults:5}
            Output properties
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             TweetText                   string             Yes
             TweetId                     string             No
             CreatedAt                   string             No
             RetweetCount                integer            Yes
             TweetedBy                   string             Yes
             MediaUrls                   array              No
            HomeTimeline
            Get home timeline: Retrieves the most recent tweets and re-tweets posted me and my
            followers
            Input properties
             Name        Data Type   Required  Description
             maxResults  integer     no        Maximum number of tweets to retrieve, e.g. {maxResults:5}
            Output properties
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             TweetText                   string             Yes
             TweetId                     string             No
             CreatedAt                   string             No
             RetweetCount                integer            Yes
             TweetedBy                   string             Yes
             MediaUrls                   array              No
            SearchTweet
            Search tweet: Retrieves a collection of relevant tweets matching a specified query
              Input properties
               Name           Data      Required    Description
                              Type
               searchQuery    string    yes         Query text (you may use any Twitter supported query
                                                    operators: https://www.twitter.com/search   )
               maxResults     integer   no          Maximum number of tweets to retrieve, e.g. {maxResults:5}
              Output properties
               Property Name                   Data Type             Required            Description
               TweetText                       string                Yes
               TweetId                         string                No
               CreatedAt                       string                No
               RetweetCount                    integer               Yes
               TweetedBy                       string                Yes
               MediaUrls                       array                 No
              Followers
              Get followers: Retrieves users following the specified user
              Input properties
               Name          Data Type    Required     Description
               userName      string       yes          Twitter handle of the user
               maxResults    integer      no           Maximum number of users to retrieve, e.g. {maxResults:5}
              Output properties
               Property Name                   Data Type             Required            Description
               FullName                        string                Yes
               Location                        string                Yes
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             Id                          integer            No
             UserName                    string             Yes
             FollowersCount              integer            No
             Description                 string             Yes
             StatusesCount               integer            No
             FriendsCount                integer            No
            MyFollowers
            Get my followers: Retrieves users who are following me
            Input properties
             Name        Data Type   Required  Description
             maxResults  integer     no        Maximum number of users to retrieve, e.g. {maxResults:5}
            Output properties
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             FullName                    string             Yes
             Location                    string             Yes
             Id                          integer            No
             UserName                    string             Yes
             FollowersCount              integer            No
             Description                 string             Yes
             StatusesCount               integer            No
             FriendsCount                integer            No
            Following
            Get following: Retrieves users who the specified user is following
            Input properties
             Name        Data Type   Required  Description
             userName    string      yes       Twitter handle of the user
             maxResults  integer     no        Maximum number of users to retrieve, e.g. {maxResults:5}
            Output properties
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             FullName                    string             Yes
             Location                    string             Yes
             Id                          integer            No
             UserName                    string             Yes
             FollowersCount              integer            No
             Description                 string             Yes
             StatusesCount               integer            No
             FriendsCount                integer            No
            MyFollowing
            Get my following: Retrieves users that I am following
            Input properties
             Name        Data Type   Required  Description
             maxResults  integer     no        Maximum number of users to retrieve, e.g. {maxResults:5}
            Output properties
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             FullName                    string             Yes
             Location                    string             Yes
             Id                          integer            No
             UserName                    string             Yes
             FollowersCount              integer            No
             Description                 string             Yes
             StatusesCount               integer            No
             FriendsCount                integer            No
            User
            Get user: Retrieves details about the specified user (example: user name, description,
            followers count, etc.)
            Input properties
             Name             Data Type        Required        Description
             userName         string           yes             Twitter handle of the user
            Output properties
             Property Name               Data Type          Required         Description
             FullName                    string             Yes
             Location                    string             Yes
             Id                          integer            No
             UserName                    string             Yes
             FollowersCount              integer            No
             Description                 string             Yes
             StatusesCount               integer            No
               Property Name                   Data Type             Required            Description
               FriendsCount                    integer               No
              Tweet
              Post a new tweet: Tweet
              Input properties
               Name           Data Type        Required       Description
               tweetText      string           no             Text to be posted e.g. {tweetText:"hello"}
               body           string           no             Media to be posted
              Output properties
               Property Name                   Data Type             Required            Description
               TweetId                         string                Yes
              OnNewTweet
              When a new tweet appears: Triggers a workflow when a new tweet is posted which
              matches your search query
              Input properties
               Name           Data     Required    Description
                              Type
               searchQuery    string   yes         Query text (you may use any Twitter supported query
                                                   operators: https://www.twitter.com/search   )
              Output properties
               Property Name                   Data Type             Required            Description
               value                           array                 No
       Helpful links
       See all the available connections. 
       Learn how to add connections to your apps.
        Add data connections to canvas apps
        In Power Apps, add a data connection to an existing canvas app or to an app that you're building
        from scratch. Your app can connect to SharePoint, Microsoft Dataverse, Salesforce, OneDrive, or
        many other data sources.
        After you add a connection, your next step is to display and manage data from that data source
        in your app, as in these examples:
             Connect to OneDrive, and manage data in an Excel workbook in your app.
             Connect to Twilio, and send an SMS message from your app.
             Connect to Microsoft Dataverse, and update a table from your app.
             Connect to SQL Server, and update a table from your app.
        Prerequisites
        Sign up for Power Apps, and then sign in   by providing the same credentials that you used to
        sign up.
        Add a data source
           1. Create a blank canvas app or open an existing canvas app for editing.
           2. In Power Apps Studio, select Data from the app authoring menu on the left pane.
           3. Select Add data at the top of the Data pane.
           4. In the search box, type the name of the connector or data source you want for example,
             SharePoint or Dataverse.
           5. Select the connector from the results list.
                   If you already have a configured connection for that connector, select it to add it to
                   your app.
                   If no existing connection appears, select Add a connection to create a new one.
          ７ Note
          When you connect to Microsoft Dataverse, you can select the environment from the drop-
          down list before choosing a table. By default, the connection uses your current working
          environment.
     Some connectors, such as Office 365 Outlook, require no additional steps and you can show data
     from them immediately. Other connectors, such as SharePoint and SQL Server, prompt you for
     additional information—like a site URL or server name—before the connection is complete.
       Tip
      Not sure which connector to use? Browse the full list at Connectors overview. You can also
      describe your scenario to Copilot in Power Apps and it can suggest an appropriate data
      source.
     Identify or change a data source
     If you're updating an app, you might need to identify or change the source of data that appears
     in a gallery, a form, or another control. For example, you might need to locate a data source in an
     app that someone else created or that you built long ago.
       1. Select the control, such as a gallery or form that you want to identify or change the data
        source.
       2. On the Properties tab of the right-hand pane, find the Data source or Items property. The
        name of the current data source appears there.
       3. To change the data source, select the drop-down next to the data source name, or edit the
        Items property directly in the formula bar.
       4. Select or create a different data source as needed.
      ７ Note
      If the expected data source is missing from the Data pane, the connection might have
      expired or been revoked. Select Add data again, search for the connector, and re-
      authenticate to restore it.
     Troubleshooting tips
        Connection not appearing: Refresh the Data pane by closing and reopening it, or sign out
        and sign back in to Power Apps to refresh your available connections.
        Authentication errors: Some connectors for example, SQL Server require credentials or an
        on-premises data gateway. Confirm that your gateway is running and your credentials are
        valid.
        Dataverse table not found: Confirm that you're connected to the correct environment. You
        can switch environments from the Power Apps home page before opening the app.
     Next steps
        To show and update data from a source such as SharePoint, Dataverse, or SQL Server, add a
        gallery and add a form.
        For connector-specific functions such as sending email or translating text, review the
        Connectors overview.
        To learn about working with data sources in formulas, see Working with data sources.
      Last updated on 05/14/2026
         Manage connections in canvas apps
         08/27/2025
         In powerapps.com , create a connection to one or more data sources, delete a connection, or
         update its credentials.
         Your canvas app's data connection can connect to SharePoint, SQL Server, Office 365, OneDrive
         for Business, Salesforce, Excel, and many other data sources.
         Your next step after this article is to display and manage data from the data source in your app,
         as in these examples:
              Connect to OneDrive for Business, and manage data in an Excel workbook in your app.
              Update a list on a SharePoint site.
              Connect to SQL Server, and update a table from your app.
              Send email in Office 365.
              Send a tweet.
              Connect to Twilio, and send an SMS message from your app.
         Prerequisites
            1. Sign up for Power Apps.
            2. Sign in to make.powerapps.com   using the same credentials that you used to sign up.
         Background on data connections
         Most canvas apps use external information called Data Sources that is stored in cloud services.
         A common example is a table in an Excel file stored in OneDrive for Business. Apps are able to
         access these data sources by using Connections.
         The most common type of data source is the table, which you can use to retrieve and store
         information. You can use connections to data sources to read and write data in Microsoft Excel
         workbooks, Microsoft Lists, SQL tables, and many other formats, which can be stored in cloud
         services like OneDrive for Business, DropBox, and SQL Server.
         There are other kinds of data sources that aren't tables, such as email, calendars, twitter, and
         notifications.
         Using the Gallery, Display form, and Edit form controls, it's easy to create an app that reads
         and writes data from a data source. To get started, read the article Understand data forms.
         In addition to creating and managing connections in powerapps.com     , you also create
         connections when you do these tasks:
              Automatically generate an app from data, such as a list created using Microsoft Lists.
              Update an existing app, or create one from scratch as add a connection describes.
              Open an app that another user created and shared with you.
         How data connections are used when running the app
         When a canvas app runs, Power Apps attempts to locate and reuse an existing connection. If
         no suitable connection is found, a new one is created for the user based on the connection
         information stored in the app. This newly created connection may differ from the one originally
         used during app authoring. This behavior may differ from how other products in the Power
         Platform handle connections.
           ７ Note
           If you want to use Power Apps Studio instead, open the File menu, and then click or tap
           Connections, powerapps.com  opens so that you can create and manage connections
           there.
         Create a new connection
            1. If you haven't already done so, log in to make.powerapps.com   .
            2. In the left navigation, expand Data and select Connections.
      3. Select New connection.
      4. Select a connector in the list that appears, and then follow the prompts.
       5. Select the Create button.
       6. Follow the prompts. Some connectors prompt you to provide credentials, specify a
        particular set of data, or perform other steps. Others such as Microsoft Translator, don't.
        For example, these connectors require additional information before you can use them.
           SharePoint
           SQL Server
     The new connector appears under Connections, and you can add it to an app.
     Update or delete a connection
     In the list of connections, find the connection that you want to update or delete, and then
     select the ellipsis (...) on the right of the connection.
        To update the credentials for a connection, select the key icon, and then provide
        credentials for that connection.
        To delete the connection, select delete.
        Select the information icon to see the connection details.
     Consent dialog fine-grained permissions
     The consent dialog presents fine-grained permissions to end users. Instead of asking the user
     to give permissions to all actions a connector can perform, the consent dialog lists the specific
     permissions that the app uses. The operations that an app uses are captured and stored in the
     app metadata when app is saved. For example, if an app is published with the specific Read
     action, then it will initially just request permission for the Read action. If then the author
     subsequently adds Create, Update, and Delete record actions then the consent dialog will be
     presented to the user again for the aggregated permissions of Read, Create, Update, and
     Delete. If the author subsequently removes the Delete records action, then the consent dialog
     isn't presented again. The permissions continue with the maximum set of actions that have
     ever been used in the app at any point. If you wish to publish an app that only shows reduced
     permissions, the app must be republished under a different name.
     The exception to this rule is for actions used in a Power Automate Flow that is embedded in a
     Power App. In this case all the actions are always shown for the actions used by a Power
     Automate flow.
      Manage the consent dialog appearance for custom
      connectors using Microsoft Entra ID OAuth
      By default, when end-users launch canvas apps they’re presented a connection consent dialog
      before they’re able to access the app experience for the first time. It’s possible for admins to
      suppress this consent dialog for select connectors:
         Microsoft First Party connectors (like SharePoint, Office 365 Users) and
         Custom connectors using either Microsoft Entra ID OAuth or NoAuth (No Authentication)
      Suppress consent dialog for apps that use custom connectors
      using Microsoft Entra ID OAuth
      To suppress consent dialog for apps created using Power Apps that connect through custom
      connectors using Microsoft Entra ID OAuth/NoAuth, follow the below steps.
      Step 1. Provision Microsoft’s Azure API connections service principal in
      your Microsoft Entra tenant
      Microsoft’s Azure API connectors service is used by all Power Apps using connectors.
      Provisioning this service in your tenant is a prerequisite for your custom applications, and
      custom connectors to pre-authorize this service to exercise single-sign-on capabilities with
      your custom applications and allow Power Apps to suppress the consent dialog.
      A tenant admin must run the following PowerShell commands:
       Powershell
         Connect-MgGraph -Scope Application.ReadWrite.All -TenantId <target tenant id>
         New-MgServicePrincipal -AppId "fe053c5f-3692-4f14-aef2-ee34fc081cae" -DisplayName 
        "Azure API Connections"
      Example successful output:
      Step 2. Pre-authorize Microsoft’s Azure API connections service principal
      in your Microsoft Entra app
         For each custom connector where consent is expected to be suppressed, authorize "Microsoft’s
         Azure API Connections" service principal to one of the scopes defined in your app.
         The owner of the Microsoft Entra custom application used by a custom connector must add
         the app ID “fe053c5f-3692-4f14-aef2-ee34fc081cae” to one of the application scopes. Any
         scope can be created and used for single-sign-on to succeed.
         To set the scope using Azure portal, go to Azure portal    > Microsoft Entra ID > App
         Registrations > Select the relevant app > Expose an API > Add a client application > Add the
         app ID “fe053c5f-3692-4f14-aef2-ee34fc081cae” to one of the application scopes.
    Step 3. Grant admin consent the client third-party Microsoft Entra app
    For each custom connector using OAuth/NoAuth where consent is expected to be suppressed,
    an admin must use Microsoft Entra’s grant tenant-wide admin consent to an application.
     ７ Note
     Admins have granular control on which custom applications, and the corresponding
     custom connector consent may be suppressed.
    Step 4. Update custom connector in Power Platform to attempt single-
    sign-on
    For each custom connector using OAuth/NoAuth where consent is expected to be suppressed,
    a user with edit permissions on the custom connector must change the "Enable on-behalf-of
    login" value to "true".
      The owner of the custom connector must choose to edit the connector, go to the Security
      section, and change the value in Enable on-behalf-of login from "false" to "true".
      Step 5. Admin configures consent bypass for the app
      In addition to the admin consent granted on a custom application in Microsoft Entra ID, which
      is used by a custom connector, an admin must also configure an app to bypass consent. For
      each app where consent is expected to be bypassed an admin must run the following
      command:
       Powershell
        Set-AdminPowerAppApisToBypassConsent -AppName <Power Apps app id>
      Remove consent suppression for apps that use custom
      connectors using Microsoft Entra ID OAuth/NoAuth
      To remove consent suppression for a custom connector, an admin must perform at least one of
      the following actions:
        1. Remove the tenant-wide admin consent grant to the application in Azure: Microsoft
         Entra’s grant tenant-wide admin consent to an application.
        2. Use the following Power Apps admin cmdlet to disable Power Apps’ attempt to suppress
         the consent dialog. Clear-AdminPowerAppApisToBypassConsent
       Rename Power Apps action-based data
       sources
       Article • 12/16/2022
       A change in the display name of a connector in Power Apps may cause errors in
       formulas used by the app. This problem takes extra efforts to update existing formulas
       with manual intervention, and name changes.
       With the ability to rename action-based data sources, you can save the extra efforts
       required to fix the formulas affected by the connector name change.
       Action-based and tabular data sources
       Before you start using this feature, it’s important to understand the difference between
       action-based and tabular data sources.
       Action-based data sources use the data source, or the service name in the formula.
       Tabular data sources use the name of the table instead.
       For example, Azure DevOps is action-based connector, while Excel is tabular data
       source.
       For example, when you reference an Azure DevOps instance, the formula uses Azure
       DevOps as the data source name
       When using Excel, the data source name in formula uses the table name (instead of the
       connector, or the service name):
       How are data source names generated?
       Data source names are generated from the display name of the connection they're
       based on. The first instance of a data source name in an app is typically the exact name
        of the connection. For instance, if you use “AzureDevOps” data source, the name of the
        connection will be “AzureDevOps”. And, if you add another “AzureDevOps” data source
        to the same application, the second data source will be named “AzureDevOps_1”.
        Renamed connectors
        Occasionally, a connector goes through a change in the display name. For example,
        from “OldConnector” to “NewConnector”.
        Existing apps will continue to work even though your data source names say
        “OldConnector”. This behavior is because your data sources still point (under the covers)
        to the correct connector type.
        However, if you drop your existing data source in the app, and add it again, the new
        data source will be named “NewConnector”. Your formulas will still reference
        “OldConnector” though, causing formula errors wherever this data source name exists.
        Fixing broken formula references to data
        source names
        Using the new “Rename” feature, you can rename your action-based connectors and fix
        up your formulas automatically.
        To fix this kind of problem, rename the data source from the new display name back to
        the old display name.
        For example, rename the data source display name from “New Connector” back to “Old
        Connector”. Once you rename, all your formula references will reconnect and work as
        before. Your application will now work correctly. You can save the app changes and
        publish the new version.
        Optional – use new data source name (Recommended)
        After your data source name and formulas are in sync, you can also rename your data
        source again to bring it in line with the new connector name.
       For example, you can rename your data source to be “NewConnector”. This rename
       updates all formula references to use the new name. We recommended this approach
       because if you ever have to drop your data source again, then readding the data source
       will be based on the newer connector display name. This step will help you avoid future
       issues.
       This approach works because the data source display name, and the formula referenced
       data sources are in sync. In other words, exactly same display name. Renaming data
       sources in the formulas can’t happen before you rename your data source back because
       the data source display name, and the formula referenced data sources aren’t the same.
       Limitations
       This rename capability is limited to action-based connectors. It doesn’t work for tabular
       data sources. Tabular data sources use the name of the tables they’re pointing to (as
       opposed to the general name of the service hosting them).
       See also
          Overview of connectors for canvas apps
          List of all Power Apps connectors
     Query limitations: Delegation and query
     limits
     Power Apps works best with a back-end data source when a Power Fx query fully translates into
     an equivalent query that runs on the data source. Power Apps sends a query the data source
     understands, the data source runs the query, and Power Apps gets the results. For example, the
     data source filters the data and only returns the rows that meet the filter criteria. When this
     process happens, Power Apps delegates the query to the data source.
     But Power Fx queries can't always translate into equivalent queries on every data source. For
     example, Dataverse supports more query features than Excel. Dataverse supports the 'in'
     (membership) query operator, but Excel doesn't. A query is nondelegable if it uses a feature
     the data source doesn't support. If any part of a query expression is nondelegable, Power Apps
     doesn't delegate any part of the query.
     When a query is nondelegable, Power Apps gets the first 500 records from the data source and
     then runs the actions in the query. You can increase this limit to 2,000 records. Changing the
     limit Power Apps limits the result size to 500 records to keep your app performing well.
     Larger result sets can cause performance problems for your app and Power Apps.
     But this limitation can be a problem because the query might return incorrect results if the data
     source has more than 500 or 2,000 records. For example, if your data source has 10 million
     records and your query needs to work on the last part of the data, like family names that start
     with 'Z', and your query uses a nondelegable operator like distinct, you only get the first 500 or
     2,000 records. So, you get incorrect results.
     Create your Power Fx queries by using the delegable tables for your data source. Only use
     query functions that can be delegated. It's the only way to keep your app performing well and
     to make sure users get all the information they need.
     Pay attention to delegation warnings that show where delegation isn't possible. If you work
     with small data sets (fewer than 500 records), you can use any data source and formula
     because the app processes data locally if the formula isn't delegated.
      ７ Note
      Delegation warnings help you manage your app so it returns correct results. If the data in
      your data source exceeds 500 records and a function isn't delegated, Power Fx marks the
      formula with a blue underline.
     Delegable data sources
     Delegation works only with certain tabular data sources. If a data source supports delegation,
     its connector documentation explains that support. These popular tabular data sources support
     delegation:
        Power Apps delegable functions and operations for Microsoft Dataverse
        Power Apps delegable functions and operations for SharePoint
        Power Apps delegable functions and operations for SQL Server
        Power Apps delegable functions and operations for Salesforce
     Imported Excel workbooks (by using the Add static data to your app data source), collections,
     and tables stored in context variables don't need delegation. This data is already in memory, so
     you use the full Power Apps language.
     Delegable functions
     Use only formulas that can be delegated. This article lists formula elements that can be
     delegated. Every data source is different, and not all data sources support all these elements.
     Check for delegation warnings in your formula.
     Filter functions
     You can delegate Filter, Search, First, and LookUp.
     Within the Filter and LookUp functions, use these functions with columns of the table to select
     the appropriate records:
        And (including &&), Or (including ||), Not (including !)
        In > [!NOTE]
         In is only delegated for columns on the base data source. For example, if the data
         source is the Accounts table, Filter(Accounts, Name in ["name1", "name2"])
         delegates to the data source for evaluation. But Filter(Accounts,
         PrimaryContact.Fullname in ["name1", "name2"]) isn't delegated because the Full
         name column is on a different table (PrimaryContact) than Accounts. The expression
         is evaluated locally.
        =, <>, >=, <=, >, <
        +, -
        TrimEnds
        IsBlank
        StartsWith, EndsWith
        Constant values that are the same across all records, like control properties, and global
        and context variables.
     You can also use parts of your formula that evaluate to a constant value for all records. For
     example, Left( Language(), 2 ), Date( 2019, 3, 31 ), and Today() don't depend on any columns
     of the record, so they return the same value for all records. These values are sent to the data
     source as a constant and don't block delegation.
     The previous list doesn't include these notable items:
        If
        *, /, Mod
        Column casting operations: Text, Value
        Concatenate (including &)
        ExactIn
        String manipulation functions: Lower, Upper, Left, Mid, Len, ...
        Signals: Location, Acceleration, Compass, ...
        Volatiles: Rand, ...
        Collections
     Delegation and collections
     When you use With, UpdateContext, or Set, these functions create collections internally.
     Collections are a static in-memory list of records and can't participate in delegation. You don't
     see a delegation warning.
     Query limitations
     Lookup and expand levels
     Power Apps lets you use up to two lookup levels. A Power Fx query expression can include a
     maximum of two lookup functions to maintain performance. When a query expression includes
     a lookup, Power Apps first queries the base table, then runs a second query to expand the first
     table with the lookup information. One additional level beyond this is supported as the
     maximum. For offline scenarios, only one level of lookup expand is supported.
     You can expand or join up to 20 entities in a single query. If you need to join more than 20
     tables in one query, try creating a view on the data server if possible.
      Expression evaluation - property of entity must be on left side
      'LHS' of equality operator
      Put the property of an entity to be compared on the left hand side (LHS) of an equation. For
      example, in the following expression, the entity property 'Business unit ID'.Name is on the LHS,
      and the expression works:
       Power Fx
       Filter(
               Budgets,
               'Business unit ID'.Name = LookUp(
                   Users,
                   'Primary Email' = User().Email,
                   'Business Unit'
               ).Name,
               DataCardValue37.Selected.'Date Range String'='Date Range String'
           )
      However, this expression doesn't work:
       Power Fx
        Filter(
               Budgets,
               LookUp(
                   Users,
                   'Primary Email' = User().Email,
                   'Business Unit'
               ).Name = 'Business unit ID'.Name,
               'Date Range String'=DataCardValue37.Selected.'Date Range String'
           )
      Sorting functions
      Sort and SortByColumns can be delegated.
      In Sort, the formula can only be the name of a single column and doesn't include other
      operators or functions.
      Aggregate functions
      Some aggregate functions can be delegated based on back-end support. Functions like Sum,
      Average, Min, and Max can be delegated. Counting functions, like CountRows and Count, can
      also be delegated. However, RemoveIf and UpdateIf have delegation restrictions. Only a
     limited number of data sources support delegation for these functions. For more information,
     see the Delegation list.
     Nondelegable functions
     All other functions can't delegate. Notable functions include:
        FirstN, Last, LastN
        Choices
        Concat
        Collect, ClearCollect
        GroupBy, Ungroup
     Nondelegable limits
     Formulas that can't be delegated are processed locally. Local processing lets you use the full
     Power Apps formula language. But there's a tradeoff: all the data comes to the device first,
     which can mean getting a large amount of data over the network. This process can take time
     and make your app seem slow or unresponsive.
     To avoid this problem, Power Apps limits the amount of data that can be processed locally to
     500 records by default. This limit lets you use small data sets completely and work with large
     data sets by seeing partial results.
     Be careful when using this feature because it can confuse users. For example, if you use the
     Filter function with a selection formula that can't be delegated over a data source with a
     million records, only the first 500 records are scanned. If the record you want is record 501 or
     500,001, Filter doesn't find or return it.
     Aggregate functions can also be confusing. For example, if you use Average over a column in
     that same million-record data source, Average can't be delegated because the expression isn't
     delegated (see the earlier note). Only the first 500 records are averaged. If you're not careful, a
     user might think a partial answer is the complete answer.
     Changing the limit
     The default number of records is 500, but you can change this number for your app:
       1. Select Settings.
       2. Under General, change the Data row limit setting from 1 to 2,000.
     In some cases, 2,000, 1,000, or 1,500 records is enough for your scenario. You can increase this
     number to fit your needs, but as you do, your app's performance can degrade, especially for
     wide tables with many columns. It's still best to delegate as much as possible.
     To make sure your app scales to large data sets, set this value to 1. Anything that can't be
     delegated returns a single record, which is easy to detect when testing your app. This helps you
     avoid surprises when moving a proof-of-concept app to production.
     Delegation warnings
     Power Apps shows a warning (yellow triangle) when you create a formula that can't be
     delegated. It's easier to know what is and isn't delegated.
     Delegation warnings appear only on formulas that use delegable data sources. If you don't see
     a warning but think your formula isn't delegated, check your data source type against the list
     of delegable data sources earlier in this article.
     Examples
     In this example, you automatically generate a three-screen app based on a SQL Server table
     named [dbo].[Fruit]. To learn how to generate the app, apply similar principles from the article
     about Dataverse to SQL Server.
    The gallery's Items property uses a formula with the SortByColumns and Search functions,
    both of which can be delegated.
    In the search box, enter "Apple".
    Marching dots briefly appear near the top of the screen as the app communicates with SQL
    Server to process the search request. All records that match the search criteria appear, even if
    the data source has millions of records.
    The search results include "Apples" and "Pineapple" because the Search function looks
    everywhere in a text column. To find only records that contain the search term at the start of
    the fruit's name, use another delegable function, Filter, with a more specific search term. For
    simplicity, remove the SortByColumns call.
    The new results include "Apples" but not "Pineapple". A yellow triangle appears next to the
    gallery and in the screen thumbnail if the left navigation bar shows thumbnails. A blue, wavy
    line appears under part of the formula. Each of these elements indicates a warning. When you
    hover over the yellow triangle next to the gallery, this message appears:
      SQL Server is a delegable data source, and Filter is a delegable function. However, Mid and Len
      can't be delegated to any data source.
      But it works, doesn't it? Kind of. That's why this is a warning and not a red, wavy squiggle.
          If the table has fewer than 500 records, the formula works perfectly. All records are
          brought to the device, and Filter is applied locally.
          If the table has more than 500 records, the formula doesn't return record 501 or higher,
          even if it matches the criteria.
      See also
          Troubleshoot Power Apps canvas app performance issues
          Performance tips and best practice to use delegation
       Last updated on 01/13/2026
            Manage an on-premises data gateway
            in Power Apps
            Article • 12/16/2022
            Install an on-premises data gateway to transfer data quickly and securely between a
            canvas app that's built in Power Apps and a data source that isn't in the cloud, such as
            an on-premises SQL Server database or an on-premises SharePoint site. View all
            gateways for which you have administrative permissions, and manage permissions and
            connections for those gateways.
            You can connect to on-premises data over the connectors that use data gateway.
            Prerequisites
                  The user name and password that you used to sign up for Power Apps.
                  Administrative permissions on a gateway. (You have these permissions by default
                  for each gateway that you install, and an administrator of another gateway can
                  grant you these permissions for that gateway.)
                  A license that supports accessing on-premises data using an on-premises gateway.
                  For more information, see the pricing page  .
            Install a gateway
            To install a gateway, follow the steps in Install an on-premises data gateway. Install the
            gateway in standard mode because the on-premises data gateway (personal mode) is
            available only for Power BI.
            View and manage gateway permissions
               1. In the left navigation bar of powerapps.com  , click or tap Gateways, and then
                  click or tap a gateway.
               2. Add a user to a gateway by clicking or tapping Users, specifying a user or group,
                  and then specifying a permission level:
                       Can use: Users who can create connections on the gateway to use for apps
                       and flows, but cannot share the gateway. Use this permission for users who
                       will run apps but not share them.
                       Can use + share: Users who can create a connection on the gateway to use
                       for apps and flows, and automatically share the gateway when sharing an
                       app. Use this permission for users who need to share apps with other users or
                       with the organization.
                       Admin: Administrators who have full control of the gateway, including adding
                       users, setting permissions, creating connections to all available data sources,
                       and deleting the gateway.
             For Can use and Can use + share permission levels, select the data sources that the user
             can connect to over the gateway.
               ７ Note
               Can use and Can use + share does not apply to custom connectors. Only gateway
               Admins can create connections for custom connectors.
             View and manage gateway connections
                1. In the left navigation bar of powerapps.com  , click or tap Gateways, and then
                  click or tap a gateway.
                2. Click or tap Connections, and then click or tap a connection to view its details, edit
                  the settings, or delete it.
                3. To share a connection, click or tap Share, and then add or remove users.
                    ７ Note
                    You can share only some types of connections, such as SQL Server. For more
                    information, see Share app resources.
             For more information about how to manage a connection, see Manage your
             connections.
             Troubleshooting and Advanced Configuration
             For more information about troubleshooting issues with gateways, see Troubleshoot the
             on-premises data gateway. For more information about configuration, see Use the on-
             premises data gateway app.
              Next steps
                    Install the on-premises data gateway.
                    Create an app that connects to an on-premises data source, such as SQL Server or
                    SharePoint.
                    Share an app that connects to an on-premises data source.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       What is an on-premises data gateway?
       Article • 03/01/2024
       The on-premises data gateway acts as a bridge to provide quick and secure data
       transfer between on-premises data (data that isn't in the cloud) and several Microsoft
       cloud services. These cloud services include Power BI, Power Apps, Power Automate,
       Azure Analysis Services, and Azure Logic Apps. By using a gateway, organizations can
       keep databases and other data sources on their on-premises networks, yet securely use
       that on-premises data in cloud services.
       How the gateway works
       For more information on how the gateway works, see On-premises data gateway
       architecture.
       Types of gateways
       There are two different types of gateways, each for a different scenario:
         On-premises data gateway allows multiple users to connect to multiple on-
         premises data sources. You can use an on-premises data gateway with all
          supported services, with a single gateway installation. This gateway is well-suited
          to complex scenarios with multiple people accessing multiple data sources.
          On-premises data gateway (personal mode) allows one user to connect to
          sources, and can’t be shared with others. An on-premises data gateway (personal
          mode) can be used only with Power BI. This gateway is well-suited to scenarios
          where you’re the only person who creates reports, and you don't need to share
          any data sources with others.
       Use a gateway
       There are four main steps for using a gateway.
         1. Download and install the gateway on a local computer.
         2. Configure the gateway based on your firewall and other network requirements.
         3. Add gateway admins who can also manage and administer other network
          requirements.
         4. Troubleshoot the gateway in case of errors.
       End user accessing via a gateway
       An end user will use the credentials for the gateway that the Power Apps author used to
       create the gateway. End users will see a connection in the consent dialog but it will be
       with the credentials provided by the Power Apps author.
       Next steps
          Install the on-premises data gateway
     Understand data sources for canvas apps
     In Power Apps, most canvas apps use external information stored in cloud services called Data
     Sources. A common example is a table in an Excel file stored in OneDrive. Apps access these data
     sources by using Connections.
     This article discusses the different kinds of data sources and how to work with table data sources,
     including how to handle delegation, error handling, and common issues.
     It's easy to create an app that does basic reading and writing to a data source. But sometimes
     you want more control over how data flows in and out of your app. This article describes how the
     Patch, DataSourceInfo, Validate, and Errors functions provide more control.
     Kinds of data sources
     Data sources can be connected to a cloud service, or they can be local to an app.
     Connected data sources
     The most common data sources are tables, which you can use to retrieve and store information.
     You can use connections to data sources to read and write data in Microsoft Excel workbooks,
     lists created using Microsoft Lists, SharePoint libraries, SQL tables, and many other formats, which
     can be stored in cloud services such as OneDrive, DropBox, and SQL Server.
     Data sources other than tables include email, calendars, Twitter, and notifications, but this article
     doesn't discuss these other kinds of data sources.
     Local data sources
     With Gallery, Display form, and Edit form controls, you can create an app that reads and writes
     data from a data source. To get started, see Understand data forms.
     When you ask Power Apps to create an app from data, these controls are used. Behind the
     scenes, the app uses an internal table to store and manipulate the data that comes from the data
     source.
     A special type of data source is the Collection, which is local to the app and not backed by a
     connection to a service in the cloud. Therefore, the information can't be shared across devices for
     the same user or between users. Collections can be loaded and saved locally.
     Kinds of tables
     Tables that are internal to an app are fixed values, just as a number or a string is a value. Internal
     tables aren't stored anywhere, but exist in your app's memory. You can't directly modify the
     structure and data of a table. What you can do instead is to create a new table through a formula:
     you use that formula to make a modified copy of the original table.
     External tables are stored in a data source for later retrieval and sharing. Power Apps provides
     "connections" to read and write stored data. Within a connection, you can access multiple tables
     of information. You can select which tables to use in your app, and each becomes a separate data
     source.
     To learn more, see Working with tables about internal tables, but also external tables residing in a
     cloud service.
     Working with tables
     You can use table data sources the same way that you use an internal Power Apps table. Just like
     an internal table, each data source has records, columns, and properties that you can use in
     formulas. In addition:
        The data source has the same column names and data types as the underlying table in the
        connection.
         ７ Note
         For SharePoint and Excel data sources that contain column names with spaces, Power
         Apps replaces the spaces with "_x0020_". For example, "Column Name" in SharePoint
         or Excel appears as "Column_x0020_Name" in Power Apps when displayed in the data
         layout or used in a formula.
        The data source is loaded from the service automatically when the app is loaded. You can
        force the data to refresh by using the Refresh function.
        As users run an app, they can create, modify, and delete records and push those changes
        back to the underlying table in the service.
         Records can be created with the Patch and Collect functions.
         Records can be modified with the Patch, Update, and UpdateIf functions.
         Records can be removed with the Remove and RemoveIf functions.
        Errors when working with a data source are available through the Errors function.
      The DataSourceInfo, Defaults, and Validate functions provide information about the data
      source that you can use to optimize the user experience.
    Creating data sources
    Power Apps can't be used to create a connected data source, or modify its structure; the data
    source must already exist in a service somewhere. For example, to create a table in an Excel
    workbook stored on OneDrive, you first use Excel Online on OneDrive to create a workbook. Next
    you create a connection to it from your app.
    However, collection data sources can be created and modified inside an app, but are only
    temporary.
    Display one or more records
    This diagram shows the flow of information when an app reads the information in a data source:
      The information is stored and shared through a storage service (in this case, Microsoft Lists
      or SharePoint Online).
      A connection makes this information available to the app. The connection takes care of
      authentication of the user to access the information.
      When the app is started or the Refresh function is pressed, information is drawn from the
      connection into a data source in the app for local use.
      Formulas are used to read the information and expose it in controls that the user can see.
      You can display the records of a data source by using a gallery on a screen and wiring the
      Items property to the data source: Gallery.Items = DataSource. You wire controls within the
      gallery, to the gallery, using the controls' Default property.
      The data source is also a table. So you can use Filter, Sort, AddColumns, and other
      functions to refine and augment the data source before using it as a whole. You can also
      use the Lookup, First, Last, and other functions to work with individual records.
    Modify a record
    The arrows in the previous diagram are one way. Changes to a data source aren't pushed back
    through the same formulas in which the data was retrieved. Instead, new formulas are used.
    Often a different screen is used for editing a record than for browsing records, especially on a
    mobile device.
    To modify an existing record of a data source, the record must have originally come from the
    data source. The record might display in a gallery, a context variable, and any number of
    formulas, but its origin should be traceable back to the data source. Extra information travels with
    the record that uniquely identifies it, ensuring that you modify the correct record.
    This diagram shows the flow of information to update a data source:
      An Edit form control provides a container for input cards, which are made up of user input
      controls such as a text-input control or a slider. The DataSource and Item properties are
      used to identify the record to edit.
      Each input card has a Default property, which is set to the field of the form's ThisItem
      record. The controls within the input card take their input values from Default. Normally,
      you don't need to modify this default.
      Each input card exposes an Update property. This property maps the user's input to a
      specific field of the record for writing back to the data source. Normally, you don't need to
      modify this property.
      A button or an image control on the screen enables the user to save changes to the record.
      The OnSelect formula of the control calls the SubmitForm function to do this work.
      SubmitForm reads all the Update properties of the cards and writes back to the data
      source.
      Sometimes there are issues. A network connection might be down, or a validation check is
      made by the service that the app didn't know about. The Error and ErrorKind properties of
      the form control makes this information available, so you can display it to the user.
    For more fine grained control over the process, you can also use the Patch and Errors function.
    The Edit form control exposes an Updates property so that you can read the values of the fields
    within the form. You can also use this property to call a custom connector on a connection,
    completely bypassing the Patch and SubmitForm functions.
    Validation
    Before you make a change to a record, the app should do what it can to make sure the change is
    acceptable. There are two reasons for checking:
      Immediate feedback to the user. The best time to fix a problem is right when it happens,
      when it's fresh in the user's mind. Literally with each touch or keystroke, red text can appear
      that identifies an issue with their entry.
      Less network traffic and less user latency. More issues detected in the app mean fewer
      conversations over the network to detect and resolve issues. Each conversation takes time
      during which the user must wait before they can move on.
    Power Apps offers two tools for validation:
      The data source can provide information about what is and isn't valid. For example,
      numbers can have minimum and maximum values, and one or more entries can be
      required. You can access this information with the DataSourceInfo function.
      The Validate function uses this same information to check the value of a single column or of
      an entire record.
    Error handling
    Now that you validated your record, update that record with Patch.
    But, there might still be a problem. The network is down, validation of the service failed, or the
    user doesn't have the right permissions, just to name a few of the possible errors your app might
    encounter. Your app needs to respond appropriately to error situations, providing feedback to
    the user and a means for them to make it right.
    When errors occur with a data source, your app automatically records the error information and
    makes it available through the Errors function. Errors are associated with the records that had the
    problems. If the problem is something the user can fix, such as a validation problem, they can
    resubmit the record, and the errors are cleared.
    If an error occurs when a record is created with Patch or Collect, there's no record to associate
    any errors with. In this case, blank is returned by Patch and can be used as the record argument
    to Errors. Creation errors are cleared with the next operation.
    The Errors function returns a table of error information. This information can include the column
    information, if the error can be attributed to a particular column. Use column-level error
    messages in label controls that are close to where the column is located on the edit screen. Use
    record-level error messages where the Column in the error table is blank, in a location close to
    the Save button for the entire record.
    Working with large data sources
    When you create reports from large data sources (perhaps millions of records), you want to
    minimize network traffic. Let's say you want to report on all Customers having a StatusCode of
    Platinum in New York City. Your Customers table contains millions of records.
    You don't want to bring those millions of customers into your app, and then choose the ones you
    want. The choice should happen inside the cloud service where your table is stored, where you
    send the chosen records over the network.
    Many, but not all, functions that you can use to choose records can be delegated, which means
    that they're run inside the cloud service. Learn more in Delegation.
     ） Important
     By default, Power Apps retrieves only the first 500 records from a data source. You can raise
     this limit to a maximum of 2,000 records in app settings. If your data source contains more
     records and your formula isn't fully delegable, a yellow delegation warning triangle appears
     in Power Apps Studio. When you see this warning, your app may not return all matching
     records at runtime. To avoid data loss in large data sets, use delegable functions such as
     Filter and Sort with supported data sources, or consider using Microsoft Dataverse, which
     has broader delegation support.
    Identify and resolve delegation warnings
    A delegation warning often appears in the formula bar as a yellow triangle when Power Apps
    can't push a formula operation to the data source, but not every nondelegable case shows this
    warning. To check whether a formula is delegable:
       1. Select the control or formula that processes your data source.
       2. Look for a yellow triangle icon in Power Apps Studio.
       3. Hover over the triangle to read the delegation warning message.
     To resolve delegation issues:
        Replace non-delegable functions (such as Search for text columns in SharePoint) with
        delegable alternatives where possible.
        Switch to Microsoft Dataverse as your data source for the broadest delegation support.
        Use server-side views (for SharePoint) or stored procedures (for SQL) to pre-filter data.
        To troubleshoot delegation issues that aren’t flagged, use Live Monitor under Advanced
        tools to inspect the queries Power Apps sends and the data returned from each data source.
        For more information, see Debugging canvas apps with Live monitor.
     Collections
     Collections are a special type of data source. They're local to the app and not backed by a
     connection to a service in the cloud. Therefore, the information can't be shared across devices for
     the same user or between users.
     Collections operate like any other data source, with a few exceptions:
        Collections can be created dynamically with the Collect function. They don't need to be
        established ahead of time, as connection-based data sources do.
        The columns of a collection can be modified at any time using the Collect function.
        Collections allow duplicate records. More than one copy of the same record can exist in a
        collection. Functions such as Remove operate on the first match they find, unless the All
        argument is supplied.
        You can use the SaveData and LoadData functions to save and reload a copy of the
        collection. The information is stored in a private location that other users, apps, or devices
        can't access.
        You can use the Export and Import controls to save and reload a copy of the collection to a
        file that the user can interact with.
     For more information on working with a collection as a data source, see create and update a
     collection.
     Collections are commonly used to hold global state for the app. See working with variables for
     the options available for managing state.
     Troubleshoot common data source issues
     My gallery only shows 500 records
     By default, Power Apps retrieves only the first 500 records from a data source. If your gallery
     appears to be missing records, you likely have a delegation issue. Check for a yellow triangle
     warning on your gallery's Items formula, and make sure the filter formula you're using is
     delegable for your data source. See Working with large data sources for resolution steps.
     Column names show x0020 in my formulas
     If your SharePoint list or Excel table has column names with spaces (for example, My Column),
     Power Apps replaces spaces with _x0020_ in formulas (for example, MyTable.My_x0020_Column).
     This is expected behavior. Rename the column in the source data to remove spaces, or continue
     using the encoded name in your formulas.
     Data source changes aren't appearing in my app
     If the underlying data changed externally (for example, a record was added in SharePoint), your
     app doesn't automatically detect changes while it's running. Use the Refresh function to force the
     app to reload the current data. For example, add a button with OnSelect =
     Refresh(MyDataSource).
     When should I use Patch instead of SubmitForm?
     Use SubmitForm when you have an Edit form control—it handles validation, field mapping, and
     error display automatically. Use Patch when you need to:
         Update a record without a form control.
         Update only specific fields without affecting others.
         Write to multiple data sources in one operation.
         Build a completely custom save experience.
     Related information
         Delegation overview for canvas apps
         Delegable data sources and functions in canvas apps
         Understand canvas-app forms
         Working with tables in canvas apps
        Working with variables in canvas apps
        Create and update a collection in canvas apps
      Last updated on 05/04/2026
     Understand tables and records in canvas
     apps
     In Power Apps, you can create a canvas app that accesses information in Microsoft Excel,
     SharePoint, SQL Server, and several other sources that store data in records and tables. To work
     most effectively with this kind of data, review the concepts that underlie these structures.
        A record contains one or more categories of information about a person, a place, or a
        thing. For example, a record might contain the name, the email address, and the phone
        number of a single customer. Other tools refer to a record as a "row" or an "item."
        A table holds one or more records that contain the same categories of information. For
        example, a table might contain the names, the email addresses, and the phone numbers
        of 50 customers.
     In your app, use formulas to create, update, and manipulate records and tables. You probably
     read and write data to an external data source, which is an extended table. In addition, you
     might create one or more internal tables, which are called collections.
     You can build a variety of formulas that take the name of a table as an argument, just as a
     formula in Excel takes one or more cell references as arguments. Some formulas in Power Apps
     return a table that reflects the other arguments that you specify. For example, you might create
     a formula:
        to update a record in a table by specifying that table as one of multiple arguments for the
        Patch function
        to add, remove, and rename columns in a table by specifying that table as an argument
        for the AddColumns, DropColumns, or RenameColumns function. None of those
        functions modifies the original table. Instead, the function returns another table based on
        the other arguments that you specify.
     Elements of a table
      Records
      Each record contains at least one category of information for a person, a place, or a thing. The
      example above shows a record for each product (Chocolate, Bread, and Water) and a column
      for each category of information (Price, Quantity on Hand, and Quantity on Order).
      In a formula, you can refer to a record by itself, outside of a table's context, by using curly
      braces. For example, this record { Name: "Strawberries", Price: 7.99 } isn't associated with a
      table. Field names, such as Name and Price in that example, aren't enclosed in double
      quotation marks.
      Fields
      A field is an individual piece of information in a record. You can visualize this sort of field as a
      value in a column for a particular record.
      Just as with a control, you refer to a field of a record by using the . operator on the record. For
      example, First(Products).Name returns the Name field for the first record in the Products
      table.
      A field can contain another record or table, as the example for the GroupBy function shows.
      You can nest as many levels of records and tables as you want.
      Columns
      A column refers to the same field for one or more records in a table. In the preceding example,
      each product has a price field, and all products share the same column for that price. The
      preceding table has four columns, shown horizontally across the top:
         Name
         Price
         Quantity on Hand
         Quantity on Order
      The column's name reflects the fields in that column.
      All values within a column are of the same data type. In the preceding example, the "Quantity
      on Hand" column always contains a number and can't contain a string, such as "12 units," for
      one record. The value of any field can also be blank.
      You might have referred to columns as "fields" in other tools.
       ７ Note
       For data sources such as SharePoint, Excel, or Power BI tiles that contain column names
       with spaces, Power Apps replaces the spaces with "_x0020_". For example, "Column
       Name" in SharePoint, Excel, or Power BI tile appears as "Column_x0020_Name" in Power
       Apps when displayed in the data layout or used in a formula.
      Table
      A table comprises one or more records, each with multiple fields that have consistent names
      across the records.
      You use the table name to refer to any table stored in a data source or a collection. You can
      also pass the table name to functions that take tables as arguments. A function or formula can
      also return tables.
      As shown in the following example, you can express a table in a formula by using the Table
      function with a set of records, which you express in curly braces:
      Table( { Value: "Strawberry" }, { Value: "Vanilla" } )
      You can also define a single-column table by using square brackets. The following expression is
      an equivalent way to write the preceding expression:
      [ "Strawberry", "Vanilla" ]
      Table formulas
      In Excel and Power Apps, you use formulas to manipulate numbers and strings of text in similar
      ways:
         In Excel, type a value, such as 42, in cell A1, and then type a formula, such as A1+2, in
         another cell to show the value of 44.
         In Power Apps, set the Default property of Slider1 to 42, and set the Text property of a
         label to Slider1.Value + 2 to show the value of 44.
      In both cases, the calculated value changes automatically if you change the values of the
      arguments (for example, the number in cell A1 or the value of Slider1).
      Similarly, you can use formulas to access and manipulate data in tables and records. You can
      use names of tables as arguments in some formulas, such as Min(Catalog, Price) to show the
      lowest value in the Price column of the Catalog table. Other formulas provide whole tables as
      return values, such as RenameColumns(Catalog, "Price", "Cost"), which returns all the records
      from the Catalog table but changes the name of the Price column to Cost.
     Just as with numbers, formulas that involve tables and records automatically recalculate as the
     underlying table or record changes. If the cost of a product in the Catalog table is lowered to a
     value that is less than the previous minimum, the return value of the Min formula automatically
     changes to match it.
     Let's walk through some simple examples.
       1. Create a blank app for a phone, and add a vertical Gallery control that contains other
        controls.
        By default, the screen shows placeholder text from a table named CustomGallerySample.
        The Items property of the screen's Gallery control is automatically set to that table.
         ７ Note
         Some controls are rearranged and enlarged for illustration purposes.
       2. Instead of setting the Items property to the name of a table, set it to a formula that
        includes the name of the table as an argument, as in this example:
        Sort(CustomGallerySample, SampleHeading, SortOrder.Descending)
        This formula incorporates the Sort function, which takes the name of a table as its first
        argument and the name of a column in that table as its second argument. The function
        also supports an optional third argument, which stipulates that you want to sort the data
        in descending order.
       3. Set the Items property to a formula that takes the formula from the previous step as an
        argument and returns a table, as in this example:
        FirstN(Sort(CustomGallerySample, SampleHeading, SortOrder.Descending), 2)
        In this formula, you use the FirstN function to show a particular number of records in a
        table. You use the Sort function as the first argument to FirstN and a number (in this case,
        2) as the second argument, which specifies how many records to show.
        The entire formula returns a table that contains the first two records of the
        CustomGallerySample table, sorted by the SampleHeading column in descending order.
     Table functions and control properties
     Consider the Lower function. If the variable welcome contains the text string "Hello, World",
     the formula Lower( welcome ) returns "hello, world". This function doesn't change the value in
     that variable. Lower is a pure function because it only processes input and produces output. It
     has no side effects. All functions in Excel and most functions in Power Apps are pure functions,
     which means the workbook or the app recalculates automatically.
     Power Apps offers a set of functions that operate on tables in the same manner. These
     functions take tables as input and filter, sort, transform, reduce, and summarize entire tables of
     data. In fact, Lower and many other functions that typically take a single value can also take a
     single-column table as input.
        Sort, Filter - Sort and filter records.
        FirstN, LastN - Return the first N or last N records of the table.
        Abs, Sqrt, Round, RoundUp, RoundDown - Perform arithmetic operations on each record
        of a single-column table, resulting in a single-column table of results.
        Left, Mid, Right, Replace, Substitute, Trim, Lower, Upper, Proper - Perform string
        manipulations on each record of a single-column table, resulting in a single-column table
        of strings.
        Len - For a column of strings, returns a single-column table that contains the length of
        each string.
        Concatenate - Concatenates multiple columns of strings, resulting in a single-column
        table of strings.
        AddColumns, DropColumns, RenameColumns, ShowColumns - Perform column
        manipulation of the table, resulting in a new table with different columns.
        Distinct - Removes duplicate records.
        Shuffle - Shuffles records into a random order.
        HashTags - Searches for hashtags in a string.
        Errors - Provides error information when you work with a data source.
     Many of these functions take a single-column table as their input. If an entire table has only
     one column, you can specify it by name. If a table has multiple columns, you can specify one of
     those columns by using Table.Column syntax. For example, Products.Name returns the single-
     column table of only Name values from the Products table.
     You can completely reshape a table however you want by using the AddColumns,
     RenameColumns, ShowColumns, or DropColumns function. Again, these functions change
     only their output, not their source.
     Properties of controls can also be tables:
        Items - Applies to galleries, list boxes, and combo boxes. This property defines the table
        that the gallery or the list shows.
        SelectedItems - Applies to list boxes and combo boxes. This property defines the table of
        items that the user selected if SelectMultiple is enabled.
     Behavioral formulas
     Some functions are specifically designed to modify data and have side effects. Because these
     functions aren't pure, you must build them carefully. They can't participate in automatically
     recalculating values in the app. You can use these functions only within behavioral formulas.
        Collect, Clear, ClearCollect - Creates collections, clears them, and adds data to them.
        Patch - Modifies one or more fields in a record.
        Update, UpdateIf - Updates records that match one or more criteria that you specify.
        Remove, RemoveIf - Deletes records that match one or more criteria that you specify.
     Record formulas
     You can also build a formula that calculates data for an individual record, takes an individual
     record as an argument, and provides an individual record as a return value. Returning to the
     gallery example, use the Gallery1.Selected property to display information from whatever
     record the user selects in that gallery.
       1. Add a Button, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
        Collect( SelectedRecord, Gallery1.Selected )
       2. Select the button while holding down the Alt key.
       3. In the File menu, select Collections.
     This formula returns a record that includes not only the data from the record that's currently
     selected in the gallery but also each control in that gallery. For example, the record contains
    both a SampleText column, which matches the SampleText column in the original table, and a
    Subtitle1 column, which represents the label that shows the data from that column. Select the
    table icon in the Subtitle1 column to drill into that data.
     ７ Note
     The Subtitle1 column might be named Subtitle2 or similar if you add elements other than
     those that this topic specifies.
    Now that you have the selected record, you can extract individual fields from it by using the .
    operator.
      1. Add a Label control, and then move it under the gallery and the button.
      2. Set the label's Text property to this expression:
       "Selected: " & Gallery1.Selected.SampleHeading
    You took the Selected property, which is a record, and extracted the SampleHeading property
    from it.
    You can also use a record as a general-purpose container for related named values.
        If you build a formula around the UpdateContext and Navigate functions, use a record to
        gather the context variables that you want to update.
        Use the Updates property on an Edit form control to gather the changes that the user
        makes in a form.
        Use the Patch function to update a data source but also to merge records.
     In these cases, the record was never a part of a table.
     Record functions and control properties
     Functions that return records:
        FirstN, LastN - Returns the first or last record or records of the table.
        Lookup - Returns the first record from a table that matches one or more criteria.
        Patch - Updates a data source or merges records.
        Defaults - Returns the default values for a data source.
     Properties that return records:
        Selected - Applies to galleries and list boxes. Returns the currently selected record.
        Updates - Applies to galleries. Pulls together all the changes that a user makes in a data-
        entry form.
        Update - Applies to input controls such as text-input controls and sliders. Sets up
        individual properties for the gallery to pull together.
     Record scope
     Some functions work by evaluating a formula across all the records of a table, one record at a
     time. You use the formula's result in different ways for each function:
        AddColumns - Use the formula to get the value for the new field you add.
        Average, Max, Min, Sum, StdevP, VarP - Use the formula to get the value you want to
        aggregate.
        Filter, Lookup - Use the formula to decide if the record should be part of the output.
        Concat - Use the formula to decide which strings to join together.
        Distinct - Use the formula to return a value that helps find duplicate records.
        ForAll - Use the formula to return any value, possibly with side effects.
        Sort - Use the formula to get the value to sort the records by.
        With - Use the formula to return any value, possibly with side effects.
     Inside these formulas, you can reference the fields of the record you're working on. Each of
     these functions creates a "record scope" where the formula runs. The fields of the record show
