       3. In the Select Solution Package page, select Browse.
       4. Find the file that you downloaded, and then select Open.
        Unless you selected a different location, the file will be in your Downloads folder.
       5. If you have the correct file (the version number might vary), select Next:
       6. In the Solution Information page, select Next if the name of the solution and the
        publisher are correct.
       7. In the Import Options page, select Import to confirm SDK message handling,
        which the sample requires:
        Another page appears and shows progress as the solution is installed over the next
        few minutes:
         When the installation finishes, the original page shows the result:
        8. Select Close.
       Load the sample data
        1. Select Apps, and then select Northwind Sample Data.
         Wait a few minutes if the Northwind apps don't appear immediately after you
         install the solution:
       2. When the app asks for permission to interact with Dataverse, select Allow:
       3. After the app loads and shows that the sample tables contain no records, select
        Load Data to populate the tables:
        As the app loads the data, dots march across the top of the app, and the number
        of records increases.
        Tables are loaded in a specific order so that relationships can be established
        between records. For example, the Order Details table has a many-to-one
        relationship with the Orders and Order Products tables, which are loaded first.
        You can cancel the process at any time by selecting Cancel, and you can remove
        the data at any time by selecting Remove Data:
        When the data finishes loading, the last row (Many to Many Relationships) shows
        Done, and the Load Data and Remove Data buttons are enabled again:
       Sample apps
       The Northwind solution includes these apps for interacting with this data:
          Northwind Orders (Canvas)
          Northwind Orders (Model-driven)
       You open these apps the same way that you opened the app in the previous procedure.
       Canvas
       This single-screen app offers a simple master-detail view of the Orders table, where you
       can view and edit a summary of the order and each line item for an order. A list of
       orders appears near the left edge, and you can select an arrow in that list to show a
       summary and the details of that order. More information: Overview of the canvas app
       for Northwind Traders.
       Model-driven
       This app operates on the same data (in the Orders table) as the canvas app. In the list of
       orders, show more information about an order by selecting its number:
       A summary of the order appears on a separate form:
       If you scroll down the form, it shows the same line items as the canvas app does:
       Do it yourself
       You can follow step-by-step instructions to create the canvas app shown earlier in this
       topic. The instructions are divided into three parts:
         1. Create an order gallery.
         2. Create a summary form.
         3. Create a detail gallery.
      If you want to skip ahead, the solution contains a starting-point app for each part. In the
      list of apps, look for Northwind Orders (Canvas) - Begin Part 1 and so on.
      This overview of the app explains the user interface, data sources, and how relationships
      are used.
       Start by reading the overview
        Overview of the canvas app for
        Northwind Traders
        Article • 12/16/2022
        Learn about the canvas app for managing relational data in the Northwind Traders
        database that you installed in your environment. Then follow step-by-step instructions
        in subsequent topics to build this app from scratch, thereby gaining hands-on
        experience working with relational data.
        In this topic, discover:
            How an app user shows and manages relational data in the app.
            Which types of data drive the app.
            How relationships between those types of data were created.
        In a single screen, the app user can show, update, create, and delete orders.
        Explore the user interface
        Order gallery
        On the left edge of the app, a gallery shows a list of orders, including the order number,
        the status, the name of the customer, and the total cost of the order. The user can scroll
        through the list to find an order and then show more information about it by selecting
        the order's arrow. More information: Create the order gallery.
       Summary form
       In the upper-right corner, a form summarizes the order that the user selected in the
       order gallery. The summary includes much of the same information as that gallery does,
       but the summary also shows the dates when the order was created and paid, as well as
       the name and the picture of the employee who managed the order. The user can
       change the data in the form, save those changes, cancel them, or delete the order by
       selecting an icon near the right edge of the title bar. More information: Create the
       summary form.
       Detail gallery
       In the lower-right corner, another gallery shows information about which products the
       selected order contains and in what quantities. Each item in this gallery is known as an
       order detail. The app user can add and delete any item in that gallery by using controls
       in and under it. More information: Create the detail gallery.
       Explore the data sources
       To create this app, you'll show data from five tables and an choice. In fact, most areas of
       this app show data from multiple tables. For example, the order gallery contains this
       information:
          The order number is a field in the Orders table.
          The status is another field in the Orders table, an option from the Orders Status
          choice.
            The customer name is a field in the Customers table.
            The total cost is calculated based on data in the Order Details table.
         The summary contains some of the same information as the list of orders, but it also
         contains the name and the picture of the employee who managed the order. That
         information is pulled from fields in the Employees table. The detail gallery shows
         records in the Order Details table, and each product in those details is a record in the
         Order Products table.
         Explore the relationships
         You can show data from different sources (for example, tables) in the same gallery or
         form because those tables have relationships that were created for you in the database.
         Many-to-one relationships
         For example, information about the customer and the employee for each order resides
         in the Customers and Employees tables. Therefore, the Orders table has many-to-one
         relationships with those tables because there are many orders, each of which can be
         placed by only one customer and managed by only one employee.
         Each order also has one or more line items that represent the products that the order
         contains and their quantities. Each line item is a record in the Order Details table, which
         pulls information about each product from the Order Products table. Each detail
         identifies only one product, but each product can appear in multiple details. Therefore,
         the Order Details table has a many-to-one relationship with the Order Products table.
         One-to-many relationships
         Each order can contain multiple line items, but each line item relates to only one order.
         Therefore, the Orders table has a one-to-many relationship with the Order Details table.
         Dot notation for relationships
         To show data based on a relationship between tables, you can use the dot property
         selector to walk across a relationship from one table to another. For example, each
         record in the Orders table pulls information from the Customers table so that the order
         gallery can show the customer names. In that gallery, you configure this behavior by
         setting the Text property of a label to this expression: 
         ThisItem.Customer.Company
       ThisItem specifies a record in the Orders table and pulls information from the
       Customers table about the customer who placed the order. In this case, the expression
       specifies that the customer's company name appears. However, the entire record for
       that customer is pulled, so you could just as easily show, for example, an email address
       for that customer instead.
       As another example of walking from one table to another, you can specify that a gallery
       should show records in one table based on a record that the user selected in another
       gallery and that's in another table. To show the order details, you'll set the detail
       gallery's Items property to this expression: 
       Gallery1.Selected.'Order Details'
       In this case, Gallery1.Selected specifies a record in the Orders table, just as ThisItem did
       in the previous example. However, this expression doesn't pull just one record as the
       previous expression did. Instead, it pulls an entire table of records to show the name
       and per-unit cost of each product (as reflected in the Order Products table) and the
       quantity (as reflected in the Order Details table).
       Do it yourself
       You can follow step-by-step instructions to create the Northwind Orders canvas app.
       The instructions are divided into three parts:
         1. Create an order gallery.
         2. Create a summary form.
         3. Create a detail gallery.
       If you want to skip ahead, the solution contains a starting-point app for each part. In the
       list of apps, look for Northwind Orders (Canvas) - Begin Part 1 and so on.
        Continue by creating the order gallery
       Create an order gallery in a canvas app
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Follow step-by-step instructions to create an order gallery in a canvas app for managing
       fictitious data in the Northwind Traders database. This topic is part of a series that
       explains how to build a business app on relational data in Microsoft Dataverse. For best
       results, explore these topics in this sequence:
         1. Create an order gallery (this topic).
         2. Create a summary form.
         3. Create a detail gallery.
       Prerequisites
          Install the Northwind Traders database and apps.
          Read through the overview of the canvas app for Northwind Traders.
       Create a blank app
       Create a blank canvas app, and give it a name such as "My Northwind Orders (Canvas
       app)".
       Add the data
       1. On the left-pane, select Data > Add data > search for, and select Orders table.
        The Orders table contains many fields of various types:
        Each field has a Display name and a Name, which is sometimes called the logical
        name. Both names refer to the same thing. In general, you'll use the display name
        when you build an app, but some cases require the more cryptic Name, as noted
        in a procedure.
       2. As we will be working with screens and controls next, in Power Apps Studio switch
        back to the Tree View on the left hand side by pressing the three stacked squares
        icon. You can return to the Data Sources at any time by pressing the cylinder icon.
       Create the order gallery
         1. On the Insert tab, select Gallery > Blank vertical to add a Gallery control, which
          will show the orders.
          The control will be placed on the canvas and a fly out dialog will appear asking
          which data source to connect to.
         2. We could connect it directly to Orders here, but instead we'd like to control the
          sort order of the gallery. Ignore the fly out dialog and in the formula bar set the
          gallery's Items property to this formula:
           Power Apps
            Sort( Orders, 'Order Number', Descending ) 
          The Sort function orders the list so that the newest order (which has the highest
          order number) appears first.
       3. After a few moments the Result View will appear below the formula bar. Pull down
        on the arrow at the left to see the result of our formula. Scroll to the right to see
        the Order Number column and ensure it is sorted the way want (highest to
        lowest).
       4. In the Properties tab near the right edge, open the Layout list:
       5. In the list of options, select Title and subtitle:
          Two Label controls are added in the gallery's template. By default, these controls
          show two columns of the Orders table, which you'll change next. The gallery's
          template is replicated vertically for each record in the table.
         6. Select Edit (next to Fields) in the Properties tab near the right edge.
         7. In the Data pane, select Title1 (or select the upper label in the gallery's template).
         8. In the formula bar, set the label's Text property to this expression:
           Power Apps
            "Order " & ThisItem.'Order Number' 
          The order number appears at the top of each gallery item. In the gallery template,
          ThisItem grants access to all fields in the Order table.
         9. In the Data pane, select Subtitle1 (or select the lower label in the gallery's
          template):
        10. In the formula bar, set the label's Text property to this expression:
           Power Apps
            ThisItem.Customer.Company 
          After you enter this formula, it may show a red squiggly error for a moment. The
          error should clear if you select anything outside the formula bar and then return
          the cursor to the formula bar. If the error persists or you don't see a value, select
          the View tab, select Data sources, and then refresh the Orders table by selecting
          the ellipsis (...) to the right of the data-source name.
          When you specify ThisItem.Customer, you're leveraging a many-to-one
          relationship between the Orders and Customers tables and retrieving the
          customer record that's associated with each order. From the customer record,
          you're extracting data in the Company column for display.
          You can show all the relationships from the Orders table to other tables, including
          the Customer table:
        11. Close the Data pane by selecting the close icon (x) in its upper-right corner.
       Show each order's status
       In this procedure, you'll add space in the gallery for a label and configure it to show
       each order's status in a different color based on the data.
        1. In the gallery's template, reduce the width of the first label, Title1:
        2. Repeat the previous step with the second label, Subtitle1:
       3. With the gallery template (or a control in the template) selected, select Label on
        the Insert tab:
       4. Move the new label to the right of the Title1 label:
         5. Set the Text property of the new label to this expression:
           Power Apps
            ThisItem.'Order Status' 
          In the Orders table, the Order Status field holds a value from the Orders Status
          choice. A choice is similar to an enumeration in other programming tools. Each set
          of options is defined in the database, so users can specify only those options that
          are in the set. The Orders Status choice is also global, not local, so you can use it in
          other tables:
          Each option in a set has a name that appears if you show it in a label. These names
          can be localized, and the app recognizes the same option whether an English user
          selects Apple, a French user selects Pomme, or a Spanish user selects Manzana.
          For this reason, you can't create a formula that relies on a hard-coded string for an
          option, as this topic demonstrates later.
          In formulas, you must surround Order Status with single quotation marks because
          it contains a space. However, that name functions the same way as any other name
          in Power Apps, such as Customer or Company, does.
         6. On the Home tab, increase the font size of the status label to 20 points, and right
          align the text:
         7. In the formula bar, set the Color property of the status label to this formula:
           Power Apps
            Switch( ThisItem.'Order Status', 
                'Orders Status'.Closed, Green, 
                'Orders Status'.New, Black, 
                'Orders Status'.Invoiced, Blue, 
                'Orders Status'.Shipped, Purple 
            ) 
          Power Apps prevents you from creating a formula that relies on a hard-coded
          string for each option in a set because such formulas could produce inappropriate
          results if the option names are localized. Instead, the Switch function determines
          the color based on whatever string appears in the label based on the user's
          settings.
          With this formula in place, different status values appear in different colors, as the
          previous graphic shows.
       Display each order's total
         1. Select the first item in the gallery, which is the gallery's template:
       2. On the Insert tab, select Label to add another label:
       3. Move the new label so that it appears under the status label:
         4. In the formula bar, set the new label's Text property to this formula:
           Power Apps
            Text( Sum( ThisItem.'Order Details', Quantity * 'Unit Price' ), "[$-en-
            US]$ #,###.00" ) 
          In this formula, the Sum function adds up the records in the Order Details table
          that are associated with each record in the Order table through a one-to-many
          relationship. These line items make up each order, and you'll use the same one-to-
          many relationship to show and edit the line items in the lower-right area of the
          screen.
          This formula shows a blue underline and a delegation warning because Dataverse
          doesn't support delegation of complex aggregate functions (for example, the sum
          of a multiplication). You can ignore this information because no order in this
        example will contain more than 500 line items. If necessary for a different app, you
        can increase that limit in App settings.
        The Text function in this formula adds a currency symbol and formats the result
        with thousands and decimal separators. As written, the formula includes the
        language tag for U.S. English ([$-en-US]) and a dollar symbol ($). If you remove the
        language tag, it will be replaced with one based on your language settings, and
        the label will show the appropriate formats for that tag. If you leave the dollar
        symbol, the label will show the appropriate currency symbol based on the user's
        settings. However, you can force a different symbol to appear by replacing the
        dollar symbol with the one that you prefer.
       5. On the Home tab, change the font size of the newest label to 20 points, and right
        align its text:
       6. Move the gallery to the left edge of the screen, and decrease the gallery's width to
        close up some space.
       7. Increase the gallery's height so that it's almost as tall as the screen, but leave a
        little room at the top for a title bar, which you'll add at the start of the next topic:
       Summary
       To recap, you started to build a single-screen canvas app by adding the order gallery,
       which includes these elements:
          An expression to show the order number: "Orders " & ThisItem.OrderNumber
          A field in a many-to-one relationship: ThisItem.Customer.Company
          A label that shows the name of an option in a set: ThisItem.'Order Status'
          A label that changes format based on which option in a set the label shows:
          Switch( ThisItem.'Order Status', 'Orders Status'.Closed, Green, ...
          A complex aggregate function over a one-to-many relationship: Sum(
          ThisItem.'Order Details', Quantity * 'Unit Price' )
       Next topic
       In the next topic, you'll add an Edit form control to display and edit an summary of
       whatever order the user selects in the gallery that you just created.
        Create the summary form
       Create a summary form in a canvas app
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Follow step-by-step instructions to create a summary form in a canvas app for
       managing fictitious data in the Northwind Traders database. This topic is part of a series
       that explains how to build a business app on relational data in Microsoft Dataverse. For
       best results, explore these topics in this sequence:
         1. Create an order gallery.
         2. Create a summary form (this topic).
         3. Create a detail gallery.
       Prerequisites
         1. Install the Northwind Traders database and apps.
         2. Review the overview of the canvas app for Northwind Traders.
         3. Create the order gallery yourself, or open the Northwind Orders (Canvas) - Begin
          Part 2 app, which already contains that gallery.
       Add a title bar
       Across the top of the app, create a title bar, which will hold action buttons by the end of
       this topic.
       1. In the Tree view pane, select Screen1 to ensure that you don't accidentally add a
        control to the order gallery:
       2. On the Insert tab, select Label to insert a Label control:
        The new label should appear only once, above the gallery. If it appears in each
        item of the gallery, delete the first instance of the label, ensure that the screen is
        selected (as the previous step describes), and then insert the label again.
       3. Move and resize the new label to span the top of the screen:
       4. Double-click the text of the label, and then type Northwind Orders.
        As an alternative, modify the Text property in the formula bar to achieve the same
        result:
       5. On the Home tab, format the label:
           Increase the font size to 24 points.
           Make the text bold.
           Make the text white.
           Center the text.
           Add a dark-blue fill to the background.
       Add an Edit form control
       In this section, you'll add controls to show a summary of any order that the user selects
       in the gallery.
        1. On the Insert tab, insert an Edit form control:
          By default, the form appears in the upper-left corner, where other controls might
          make it difficult to find:
        2. Move and resize the form to cover the upper-right corner of the screen under the
          title bar:
        3. In the Properties pane, select the Data source drop down.
        4. Select the Orders data source.
       Add and arrange fields
       1. In the Properties tab near the right edge, select Edit fields to open the Fields
        pane.
       2. If the Fields pane is not empty, remove the fields that have already been inserted.
       3. After the fields list is empty, select Add field, and then select the check boxes for
        the Customer and Employee fields.
       4. Scroll down until these fields appear, and then select their check boxes:
           Notes
           Order Date
           Order Number
           Order Status
           Paid Date
       5. At the bottom of the Fields pane, select Add, and then close the Fields pane.
        The form shows seven fields, which may be in a different order:
         ７ Note
         If any field shows a red error icon, a problem might have occurred when data
         was pulled from the source. To resolve the error, refresh the data:
          a. On the View tab, select Data sources.
          b. In the Data pane, select Data sources.
          c. Next to Orders, select the ellipsis (...), select Refresh, and then close the
           Data pane.
         If the combo box for the customer or employee name still shows an error,
         check the Primary text and SearchField of each box by selecting it and then
         opening the Data pane. For the customer box, both fields should be set to
         nwind_company. For the employee box, both fields should be set to
         nwind_lastname.
       6. With the form selected, change the number of columns in the form from 3 to 12 in
        the Properties tab near the right edge.
        This step adds flexibility as you arrange the fields:
        Many UI designs rely on 12-column layouts because they can evenly accommodate
        rows of 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 12 controls. In this topic, you'll create rows that contain 1,
        2, or 4 controls.
       7. Move and resize the fields by dragging their handles, just as you would any other
        control, so that each row contains these data cards in the specified order:
           First row: Order Number, Order Status, Order Date, and Paid Date
           Second row: Customer and Employee
           Third row: Notes
         ７ Note
         You might find it easier to widen the Notes, Customer, and Employee data
         cards before you arrange them.
          More information about how to arrange fields in a form: Understand data-form
          layout for canvas apps.
       Hide time controls
       In this example, you don't need the time portions of the date fields because that level of
       granularity can distract the user. If you delete them, you might cause problems in
       formulas that rely on those controls to update date values or determine the position of
       another control in the data card. Instead, you'll hide the time controls by setting their
       Visible property.
         1. In the Tree view pane, select the Order Date data card.
          The card might have a different name, but it contains Order Date.
         2. While holding down the Shift key, select the hour, minute, and colon-separator
          controls in the Order Date data card.
         3. Set the controls' Visible property to false.
          All selected controls disappear from the form:
       4. Resize the Date picker control to show the complete date:
        Next, you'll repeat the last few steps for the Paid Date field.
       5. In the Tree view pane, select the time controls in the Paid Date data card:
       6. Set the selected controls' Visible property to false:
       7. Resize the date picker in the Date Paid card:
       Connect the order gallery
         1. In the Tree view pane, collapse the form to more easily find the name of the order
          gallery, and then, if necessary, rename it to Gallery1.
         2. Set the summary form's Item property to this expression:
            Power Fx
            Gallery1.Selected
          The form shows an summary of whatever order the app user selects in the list.
       Replace a data card
       Order number is an identifier that Dataverse assigns automatically when you create a
       record. This field has a Text input control by default, but you'll replace it with a label so
       that the user can't edit this field.
         1. Select the form, select Edit fields in the Properties tab near the right edge, and
          then select the Order number field:
         2. Open the Control type list:
       3. Select the View text data card:
       4. Close the Fields pane.
        The user can no longer change the order number:
       5. On the Home tab, change the order number's font size to 20 points so that the
        field is easier to find:
       Use a many-to-one relationship
       The Orders table has a many-to-one relationship with the Employees table: each
       employee can create many orders, but each order can be assigned to only one
       employee. When the user selects an employee in the Combo box control, its Selected
       property provides that employee's entire record from the Employees table. As a result,
       you can configure an Image control to show the picture of whatever employee the user
       selects in the combo box.
        1. Select the Employee data card:
        2. In the Advanced tab near the right edge, unlock the data card so that you can edit
          formulas that were previously read-only:
       3. In the data card, reduce the width of the combo box to make room for the
        employee picture:
       4. On the Insert tab, select Media > Image:
          An image appears in the data card, which expands to accommodate it:
         5. Resize the image, and move it to the right of the combo box:
         6. Set the Image property of the image to this formula, replacing the number at the
          end of DataCardValue if necessary:
            Power Fx
            DataCardValue7.Selected.Picture
          The picture of the selected employee appears.
        7. While holding down the Alt key, select a different employee in the combo box to
          confirm that the picture also changes.
       Add a Save icon
        1. In the Tree view pane, select Screen1, and then select Insert > Icons > Check:
        The Check icon appears in the upper-left corner by default, where other controls
        might make the icon difficult to find:
       2. On the Home tab, change the Color property of the icon to white, resize the icon,
        and move it near the right edge of the title bar:
         3. In the Tree view pane, confirm that the form's name is Form1, and then set the
          icon's OnSelect property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            SubmitForm( Form1 )
          When the user selects the icon, the SubmitForm function gathers any changed
          values in the form and submits them to the data source. Dots march across the top
          of the screen as the data is submitted, and the order gallery reflects the changes
          after the process finishes.
         4. Set the icon's DisplayMode property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            If( Form1.Unsaved, DisplayMode.Edit, DisplayMode.Disabled )
          If all changes in the form have been saved, the icon is disabled and appears in the
          DisabledColor, which you'll set next.
         5. Set the icon's DisabledColor property to this value:
            Power Fx
            Gray
          The user can save changes to an order by selecting the Check icon, which is then
          disabled and dimmed until the user makes another change:
       Add a Cancel icon
        1. On the Insert tab, select Icons > Cancel:
          The icon appears in the upper-left corner by default, where other controls might
          make the icon difficult to find:
         2. On the Home tab, change the icon's Color property to white, resize the icon, and
          move it to the left of the Check icon:
         3. Set the Cancel icon's OnSelect property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            ResetForm( Form1 )
          The ResetForm function discards all changes in the form, which returns it to its
          original state.
         4. Set the Cancel icon's DisplayMode property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            If( Form1.Unsaved Or Form1.Mode = FormMode.New, DisplayMode.Edit, 
            DisplayMode.Disabled )
          This formula differs slightly from the one for the Check icon. The Cancel icon is
          disabled if all changes have been saved or the form is in New mode, which you'll
          enable next. In that case, ResetForm discards the new record.
         5. Set the Cancel icon's DisabledColor property to this value:
            Power Fx
            Gray
          The user can cancel changes to an order, and the Check and Cancel icons are
          disabled and dimmed if all changes have been saved:
       Add an Add icon
         1. On the Insert tab, select Icons > Add.
        The Add icon appears in the upper-left corner by default, where other controls
        might make it difficult to find:
       2. On the Home tab, set the Color property of the Add icon to white, resize the icon,
        and move it to the left of the Cancel icon:
         3. Set the Add icon's OnSelect property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            NewForm( Form1 )
          The NewForm function shows a blank record in the form.
         4. Set the Add icon's DisplayMode property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            If( Form1.Unsaved Or Form1.Mode = FormMode.New, DisplayMode.Disabled, 
            DisplayMode.Edit )
          The formula disables the Add icon under these conditions:
             The user makes changes but doesn't save or cancel them, which is the
             opposite behavior from the Check and Cancel icons.
             The user selects the Add icon but makes no changes.
         5. Set the Add icon's DisabledColor property to this value:
            Power Fx
            Gray
          The user can create an order if they make no changes or they save or cancel any
          changes they've made. (If the user selects this icon, they can't select it again until
          they make one or more changes and then save or cancel those changes):
        ７ Note
        If you create and save an order, you might need to scroll down in the order gallery
        to show your new order. It won't have a total price because you haven't added any
        order details yet.
       Add a Trash icon
        1. On the Insert tab, select Icons > Trash.
          The Trash icon appears in the upper-left corner by default, where other controls
          might make it difficult to find:
        2. On the Home tab, change the Trash icon's Color property to white, resize the icon,
          and move it to the left of the Add icon:
         3. Set the Trash icon's OnSelect property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Remove( Orders, Gallery1.Selected )
          The Remove function removes a record from a data source. In this formula, the
          function removes the record that's selected in the order gallery. The Trash icon
          appears near the summary form (not the order gallery) because the form shows
          more details about the record, so the user can more easily identify the record that
          the formula will delete.
         4. Set the Trash icon's DisplayMode property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            If( Form1.Mode = FormMode.New, DisplayMode.Disabled, DisplayMode.Edit )
          This formula disables the Trash icon if the user is creating a record. Until the user
          saves the record, the Remove function has no record to delete.
         5. Set the Trash icon's DisabledColor property to this value:
            Power Fx
            Gray
          The user can delete an order.
       Summary
       To recap, you added a form in which the user can show and edit a summary of each
       order, and you used these elements:
          A form that shows data from the Orders table: Form1.DataSource = Orders
          A connection between the form and the order gallery: Form1.Item =
          Gallery1.Selected
          An alternate control for the Order number field: View text
          A many-to-one relationship to show the employee's picture in the Employee data
          card: DataCardValue1.Selected.Picture
          An icon to save changes to an order: SubmitForm( Form1 )
          An icon to cancel changes to an order: ResetForm( Form1 )
          An icon to create an order: NewForm( Form1 )
          An icon to delete an order: Remove( Orders, Gallery1.Selected )
       Next step
       In the next topic, you'll add another gallery to show the products in each order, and
       you'll change those details by using the Patch function.
        Create the detail gallery
       Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Create a detail gallery in a canvas app
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Follow step-by-step instructions to create a detail gallery in a canvas app for managing
       fictitious data in the Northwind Traders database. This topic is part of a series that
       explains how to build a business app on relational data in Microsoft Dataverse. For best
       results, explore these topics in this sequence:
         1. Create an order gallery.
         2. Create a summary form.
         3. Create a detail gallery (this topic).
       Prerequisites
       Before you start this topic, you must install the database as described earlier in this
       topic. You must then either create the order gallery and the summary form or open the
       Northwind Orders (Canvas) - Begin Part 3 app, which already contains that gallery and
       that form.
       Create another title bar
         1. At the top of the screen, select the Label control that acts as a title bar, copy it by
          pressing Ctrl-C, and then paste it by pressing Ctrl-V:
         2. Resize and move the copy so that it appears just under the summary form.
         3. Remove the text from the copy in either of these ways:
             Double-click the text to select it, and then press Delete.
             Set the label's Text property to an empty string ("").
       Add a gallery
         1. Insert a Gallery control with a Blank vertical layout:
          The new gallery, which will show order details, appears in the upper-left corner.
         2. Close the fly out data source dialog, and then resize and move the detail gallery to
          the lower-right corner, below the new title bar:
         3. Set the Items property of the detail gallery to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Gallery1.Selected.'Order Details'
         If an error appears, confirm that the order gallery is named Gallery1 (in the Tree
         view pane near the left edge). If that gallery has a different name, rename it
         Gallery1.
         You've just linked the two galleries. When the user selects an order in the order
         gallery, that selection identifies a record in the Orders table. If that order contains
         one or more line items, the record in the Orders table is linked to one or more
         records in the Order details table, and data from those records appears in the
         detail gallery. This behavior reflects the one-to-many relationship that was created
         for you between the Orders and Order Details tables. The formula that you
         specified "walks" that relationship by using dot notation:
      Show product names
       1. In the detail gallery, select Add an item from the Insert tab to select the gallery
         template:
          Ensure that you've selected the gallery template instead of the gallery itself. The
          bounding box should be slightly inside the gallery's boundary and probably
          shorter than the gallery's height. As you insert controls into this template, they are
          repeated for each item in the gallery.
         2. On the Insert tab, insert a label into the detail gallery.
          The label should appear within the gallery; if it doesn't, try again, but make sure to
          select the gallery's template before you insert the label.
         3. Set the new label's Text property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            ThisItem.Product.'Product Name'
        If no text appears, select the arrow for Order 0901 near the bottom of the order
        gallery.
       4. Resize the label so that the full text appears:
        This expression walks from a record in the Order Details table. The record is held
        in ThisItem over to the Order Products table through a many-to-one relationship:
        The Product Name column (and other columns that you're about to use) are
        extracted:
      Show product images
        1. On the Insert tab, insert an Image control into the detail gallery:
        2. Resize and move the image and the label to be side by side.
           Tip
          For fine-grained control over the size and the position of a control, start to
          resize or move it without pressing the Alt key, and then continue to resize or
          move the control while you hold down the Alt key:
         3. Set the image's Image property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            ThisItem.Product.Picture
          Again, the expression references a product that's associated with this order detail
          and extracting the Picture field to display.
         4. Reduce the height of the gallery's template so that more than one Order Detail
          record appears at a time:
       Show product quantity and cost
         1. On the Insert tab, insert another label into the detail gallery, and then resize and
          move the new label to the right of the product information.
         2. Set the new label's Text property to this expression:
            Power Fx
            ThisItem.Quantity
          This formula pulls information directly from the Order Details table (no
          relationship required).
         3. On the Home tab, change the alignment of this control to Right:
         4. On the Insert tab, insert another label into the detail gallery, and then resize and
          move the label to the right of the quantity label.
         5. Set the new label's Text property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Text( ThisItem.'Unit Price', "[$-en-US]$ #,###.00" )
          If you don't include the language tag ([$-en-US]), it will be added for you based on
          your language and region. If you use a different language tag, you'll want to
          remove the $ just after the close square bracket (]), and then add your own
          currency symbol in that position.
         6. On the Home tab, change the alignment of this control to Right:
         7. On the Insert tab, insert another label control into the detail gallery, and then
          resize and move the new label to the right of the unit price.
         8. Set the new label's Text property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Text( ThisItem.Quantity * ThisItem.'Unit Price', "[$-en-US]$ #,###.00" 
            )
          Again, if you don't include the language tag ([$-en-US]), it will be added for you
          based on your language and region. If the tag is different, you'll want to use your
          own currency symbol instead of the $ just after the close square bracket (]).
         9. On the Home tab, change the alignment of this control to Right:
          You're done adding controls to the detail gallery for now.
        10. In the Tree view pane, select Screen1 to ensure that the detail gallery is no longer
          selected.
       Add text to the new title bar
         1. On the Insert tab, insert another label on to the screen:
         2. Resize and move the new label above the pictures of the products in the second
          title bar, and then change the text's color to white on the Home tab.
         3. Double-click the label's text, and then type Product:
       4. Copy and paste the product label, and then resize and move the copy above the
        quantity column.
       5. Double-click the new label's text, and then type Quantity:
       6. Copy and paste the quantity label, and then resize and move the copy above the
        unit-price column.
       7. Double-click the new label's text, and then type Unit Price:
         8. Copy and paste the unit-price label, and then resize and move the copy above the
          extended-price column.
         9. Double-click the text of the new label, and then type Extended:
       Display order totals
         1. Reduce the height of the detail gallery to make room for the order totals at the
          bottom of the screen:
       2. Copy and paste the title bar in the middle of the screen, and then move the copy
        to the bottom of the screen:
       3. Copy and paste the product label from the middle title bar, and then move the
        copy to the bottom title bar, just to the left of the Quantity column.
       4. Double-click the new label's text, and then type this text:
        Order Totals:
         5. Copy and paste the order-totals label, and then resize and move the copy to the
          right of the order-totals label.
         6. Set the new label's Text property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Sum( Gallery1.Selected.'Order Details', Quantity )
          This formula shows a delegation warning, but you can ignore it because no single
          order will contain more than 500 products.
         7. On the Home tab, set the new label's text alignment to Right:
         8. Copy and paste this label control, and then resize and move the copy under the
          Extended column.
         9. Set the copy's Text property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Text( Sum( Gallery1.Selected.'Order Details', Quantity * 'Unit Price' 
            ), "[$-en-US]$ #,###.00" )
          This formula shows a delegation warning, but you can ignore it because no single
          order will contain more than 500 products.
       Add space for new details
       In any gallery, you can show data but you can't update it or add records. Under the
       detail gallery, you'll add an area where the user can configure a record in the Order
       Details table and insert that record into an order.
         1. Reduce the height of the detail gallery enough to make room for a single-item
          editing space under that gallery.
          In this space, you'll add controls so that the user can add an order detail:
       2. On the Insert tab, insert a label, and then resize and move it under the detail
        gallery.
       3. Double-click the text of the new label, and then press Delete.
       4. On the Home tab, set the new label's Fill color to LightBlue:
       Select a product
         1. On the Insert tab, select Controls > Combo box:
          The Combo box control appears in the upper-left corner.
         2. In the fly out dialog, select the Order Products data source.
         3. In the Properties tab for the combo box, select Edit (next to Fields) to open the
          Data pane. Ensure that the Primary text and SearchField are set to
          nwind_productname.
          You specify the logical name because the Data pane doesn't support display
          names in this case yet:
       4. Close the Data pane.
       5. In the Properties tab near the right edge, scroll down, turn off Allow multiple
        selection, and ensure that Allow searching is turned on:
       6. Resize and move the combo box to the light-blue area, just under the product-
        name column in the detail gallery:
         In this combo box, the user will specify a record in the Product table for the Order
         Details record that the app will create.
        7. While holding down the Alt key, select the combo box's down arrow.
           Tip
          By holding down the Alt key, you can interact with controls in Power Apps
          Studio without opening Preview mode.
        8. In the list of products that appears, select a product:
      Add a product image
        1. On the Insert tab, select Media > Image:
          The Image control appears in the upper-left corner:
         2. Resize and move the image to the light-blue area under the other product images
          and next to the combo box.
         3. Set the Image property of the image to:
            Power Fx
            ComboBox1.Selected.Picture
          You're using the same trick as you used to show the employee picture in the
          summary form. The Selected property of the combo box returns the entire record
          of whatever product the user selects, including the Picture field.
       Add a quantity box
        1. On the Insert tab, select Text > Text input:
          The Text input control appears in the upper-left corner:
       2. Resize and move the text-input box to the right of the combo box, under the
        quantity column in the detail gallery:
        By using this text-input box, the user will specify the Quantity field of the Order
        Details record.
       3. Set the Default property of this control to "":
        4. On the Home tab, set the text alignment of this control to Right:
       Show the unit and extended prices
        1. On the Insert tab, insert a Label control.
          The label appears in the upper-left corner of the screen:
         2. Resize and move the label to the right of the text-input control, and set the label's
          Text property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Text( ComboBox1.Selected.'List Price', "[$-en-US]$ #,###.00" )
          This control shows the List Price from the Order Products table. This value will
          determine the Unit Price field in the Order Details record.
            ７ Note
            For this scenario, the value is read-only, but other scenarios might call for the
            app user to modify it. In that case, use a Text input control, and set its Default
            property to List Price.
         3. On the Home tab, set the text alignment of the list-price label to Right:
         4. Copy and paste the list-price label, and then resize and move the copy to the right
          of the list-price label.
         5. Set the new label's Text property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Text( Value(TextInput1.Text) * ComboBox1.Selected.'List Price', "[$-en-
            US]$ #,###.00" )
          This control shows the extended price based on the quantity that the app user
          specified and the list price of the product that the app user selected. It's purely
          informational for the app user.
         6. Double-click the text-input control for quantity, and then type a number.
         The Extended price label recalculates to show the new value:
      Add an Add icon
        1. On the Insert tab, select Icons > Add:
         The icon appears in the upper-left corner of the screen.
         2. Resize and move this icon to the right edge of the light-blue area, and then set the
          icon's OnSelect property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Patch( 'Order Details',
                Defaults('Order Details'),
                {
                    Order: Gallery1.Selected,
                    Product: ComboBox1.Selected,
                    Quantity: Value(TextInput1.Text),
                    'Unit Price': ComboBox1.Selected.'List Price'
                }
            );
            Refresh( Orders );
            Reset( ComboBox1 );
            Reset( TextInput1 )
        In general, the Patch function updates and creates records, and the specific
        arguments in this formula determine the exact changes that the function will make.
           The first argument specifies the data source (in this case, the Order Details
           table) in which the function will update or create a record.
           The second argument specifies that the function will create a record with the
           default values for the Order Details table unless otherwise specified in the
           third argument.
           The third argument specifies that four columns in the new record will contain
           values from the user.
            The Order column will contain the number of the order that the user
            selected in order gallery.
            The Product column will contain the name of the product that the user
            selected in the combo box that shows products.
            The Quantity column will contain the value that the user specified in the
            text-input box.
            The Unit Price column will contain the list price of the product that the
            user selected for this order detail.
         ７ Note
         You can build formulas that use data from any column (in the Order Products
         table) for whatever product the app user selects in the combo box that shows
         products. When the user selects a record in the Order Products table, not only
         does the product’s name appear in that combo box but also the product’s
         unit price appears in a label. Each lookup value in a canvas app references an
         entire record, not just a primary key.
        The Refresh function ensures that the Orders table reflects the record that you’ve
        just added to the Order Details table. The Reset function clears the product,
        quantity, and unit-price data so that the user can more easily create another order
        detail for the same order.
       3. Press F5, and then select the Add icon.
        The order reflects the information that you specified:
        4. (optional) Add another item to the order.
        5. Press Esc to close Preview mode.
       Remove an order detail
        1. In the center of the screen, select the template of the detail gallery:
        2. On the Insert tab, select Icons > Trash:
          The Trash icon appears in the upper-left corner of gallery's template.
         3. Resize and move the Trash icon to the right side of the detail gallery's template,
          and set the icon's OnSelect property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Remove( 'Order Details', ThisItem ); Refresh( Orders )
          As of this writing, you can't remove a record directly from a relationship, so the
          Remove function removes a record directly from the related table. ThisItem
          specifies the record to remove, taken from the same record in the detail gallery
          where the Trash icon appears.
          Again, the operation uses cached data, so the Refresh function informs the Orders
          table that the app has changed one of its related tables.
         4. Press F5 to open Preview mode, and then select the Trash icon next to each Order
          Details record that you want to remove from the order.
         5. Try adding and removing various order details from your orders:
       In conclusion
              To recap, you added another gallery to show order details and controls adding and
              removing an order detail in the app. You used these elements:
                    A second gallery control, linked to the order gallery through a one-to-many
                    relationship: Gallery2.Items = Gallery1.Selected.'Order Details'
                    A many-to-one relationship from the Order Details table to the Order Products
                    table: ThisItem.Product.'Product Name' and ThisItem.Product.Picture
                    The Choices function to get a list of products: Choices( 'Order Details'.Product'
                    )
                    The Selected property of a combo box as the complete many-to-one related
                    record: ComboBox1.Selected.Picture and ComboBox1.Selected.'List Price'
                    The Patch function to create an Order Details record: Patch( 'Order Details',
                    Defaults( 'Order Details' ), ... )
                    The Remove function to delete an Order Details record: Remove( 'Order Details',
                    ThisItem )
              This series of topics has been a quick walkthrough of using Dataverse relationships and
              choices in a canvas app for educational purposes. Before you release any app to
              production, you should consider field validation, error handling, and many other factors.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
        Build global support into canvas apps
        Article • 12/16/2022
        Power Apps is a global product. You can build and use canvas apps in many different
        languages and regions.
        Both while building and running apps, the text displayed by Power Apps has been
        translated into different kinds of languages. You'll see menu items, dialog boxes, ribbon
        tabs, and other text in your native language. Typing in and displaying dates and
        numbers is also adapted for your particular language and region. For example, some
        regions of the world use a . (dot or period) as the decimal separator while others use a ,
        (comma).
        The apps you create can be globally aware as well. Use the Language, Text, Value,
        DateValue, and other functions to adapt what is displayed and used as input in different
        languages.
        Language settings
        When using the native studio or a native player, the language used is provided by the
        host operating system. For Windows, this setting can be controlled under "All Settings"
        and then "Time & language" settings. Windows also allows you to specify the characters
        to use for the decimal separator, overriding the language setting.
        When using the web experiences, the language used is provided by the browser. Most
        browser default to the host operating system's setting with some also providing a way
        to set the language manually.
        Authoring environment
        The authoring environment adapts to the language setting of the author. The app itself
        is stored in a language agnostic manner, so that authors using different languages can
        edit the same app.
        Names in formulas
        Most elements in formula are always in English:
           Function names: If, Navigate, Collect, and so on.
           Control property names: Screen.Fill, Button.OnSelect, Textbox.Font, and so on.
        Enumeration names: Color.Aqua, DataSourceInfo.MaxValue, FontWeight.Bold,
        and so on.
        Signal records: Compass.Heading, Location. Latitude, App.ActiveScreen, and so
        on.
        Operators: Parent, in, exactIn, and so on.
      As the authoring experience is localized, control and other object names will appear in
      the native language of the author. In Spanish, some of the control names appear as:
      When you insert one of these controls into your app, their name will default to English.
      This change is done for consistency with the control property names and the rest of the
      formula. For example, Casilla listed above is inserted as Checkbox1.
      After a control is inserted, you can change the name to whatever you like. While
      selected, the far left-hand side of the "Content" ribbon displays the name of the control.
      Selecting this name drops down a text box where you can edit the name:
      If you like, here you can rename the control to Casilla1. The red squiggly, in this case
      displayed by a browser, is because the name isn't a Spanish word and is of no concern.
      You can use whatever names you like for:
                  Control names
                  Collection names
                  Context variable names
             Formula separators and chaining operator
             Some separators and operators will shift based on the decimal separator of the author's
             language:
                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
              Author's language        Power Apps decimal    Power Apps list    Power Apps
              decimal separator        separator             separator          chaining operator
              . (dot or period)        . (dot or period)     , (comma)          ; (semi-colon)
              , (comma)                , (comma)             ; (semi-colon)     ;; (double semi-colon)
             The change in the Power Apps list separator is consistent with what happens to the Excel
             list separator. It impacts:
                  Arguments in function calls.
                  Fields in a record.
                  Records in a table.
             For example, consider the following formula expressed in a language and region that
             uses dot or period as the decimal separator, such as Japan or the United Kingdom:
             Now view this same formula in a language and region where a comma is used for the
             decimal separator, such as France or Spain:
             The highlight shows the operators that change between the two versions. The property
             selection operator . (dot or period) in Slider1.Value is always the same, no matter what
             the decimal separator is.
        Internally the formula doesn't change, all that changes is how it's displayed and edited
        by the author. Two different authors using two different languages can view and edit the
        same formula, with each seeing the appropriate separators and operators for their
        language.
        Creating a global app
        The app you create can adapt to different languages, providing a great user experience
        for your users around the world.
        Language function
        The Language function returns the language tag of the current user. For example, this
        function returns "en-GB" for users in Great Britain and "de-DE" for users in Germany.
        Among other things, you can use Language to display translated text for your users.
        Your app can include a table of translated values in your app:
        And then use a formula such as the following to pull translated strings from the table:
          Power Fx
          LookUp( Table1, TextID = "Hello" && (LanguageTag = Left( Language(), 2 ) || 
          IsBlank( LanguageTag ))).LocalizedText
        Translated strings in other languages could be longer than they are in your language. In
        many cases, the labels and other elements that display the strings in your user interface
        will need to be wider to accommodate.
        For more information, see the documentation for the Language function.
        Formatting numbers, dates, and times
      Numbers, dates, and times are written in different formats in different parts of the world.
      The meaning of commas, decimals, and the order of month, date, and year vary from
      location to location.
      The Text function formats numbers and dates using the language setting of the user.
      Text requires a format string to know how you want to format the number or date. This
      format string can take one of two forms:
        A global aware enumeration. For example, Text( Now(),
        DateTimeFormat.LongDate ). This formula will format the current date in a
        language appropriate format. This method is the preferred way to specify the
        format string.
        A custom format string. For example, Text( Now(), "[$-en-US]dddd, mmmm dd,
        yyyy" ) displays the same text as the enumeration when used in the language "en-
        US". The advantage of the custom format string is that you can specify exactly
        what you want.
      The "[$-en-US]" on the front of the custom format string tells Text in which language to
      interpret the custom format string. This string is inserted for you and defaults to your
      authoring language. Normally you won't need to change this string. It's useful when
      authors from different languages are editing the same app.
      The third argument to Text specifies which language to use for the result of the
      function. The default is the language setting of the current user.
      For more information, see the documentation for the Text function.
      Reading numbers, dates, and times
      There are four functions for reading numbers, dates, and times provided by the user:
        Value: Converts a number in a text string to a number value.
        DateValue: Converts a date value in a text string to a date/time value. Anytime
        specified in the text string is ignored.
        TimeValue: Converts a time value in a text string to a date/time value. Any date
        specified in the text string is ignored.
        DateTimeValue: Converts a date and time value in a text string to a date/time
        value.
      If you have used Excel, all of these functions are combined in the single Value function.
      They're broken out here since Power Apps has separate types for date/time values and
      numbers.
              All of these functions have the same arguments:
                    String, required: A string from the user. For example, a string types into a Text
                    input control and read from the control with the Text property.
                    Language, optional: The language in which to interpret the String. By default, the
                    language setting of the user.
              For example:
                    Value( "12,345.678", "en-US" ) or Value( "12,345.678" ) when located where "en-
                    US" is the user's language returns the number 12345.678, ready for calculations.
                    DateValue( "1/2/01", "es-ES" ) or DateValue( "1/2/01" ) when located where "es-
                    ES" is the user's language returns the date/time value February 1, 2001 at
                    midnight.
                    TimeValue( "11:43:02", "fr-FR" ) or TimeValue( "11:43:02" ) when located where "fr-
                    FR" is the user's language returns the date/time value January 1, 1970 at 11:43:02.
                    DateTimeValue( "11:43:02 1/2/01", "de-DE" ) or DateTimeValue( "11:43:02 1/2/01" )
                    when located where "de-DE" is the user's language returns the date/time value
                    February 1, 2001 at 11:43:02.
              For more information, see the documentation for the Value and DateValue, TimeValue,
              and DateTimeValue functions and working with dates and times.
              Calendar and Clock information
              The Calendar and Clock functions provide calendar and clock information for the user's
              current language.
              Among other things, use these functions to provide a Dropdown control with a list of
              choices.
              For more information, see the documentation for the Calendar and Clock functions.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
             Build a multi-language app
             Article • 03/03/2023
             In this article, you'll learn how to create a multi-language app with localized experience.
             With this method, you can use canvas app components and make translations available
             in an app using a uniform formula syntax.
               ） Important
               The method described in this article use components for canvas apps which is in
               public preview. For more information, see Create a component for canvas apps
             Create a translation component
             When working with a multi-language app, the first step is to create a reusable
             component for translation. In this component, you'll store a table that acts as the
             dictionary of all translations you'll need. An output property will be used to provide
             output strings from this dictionary table based on the language of the user running the
             app that uses this component.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. On the left pane, select Apps.
                3. Under Apps, select Component libraries (preview).
                4. Select + New component library (preview).
               5. Enter a name, such as "Translation components", and select Create to open the
                 component in Power Apps Studio.
               6. Rename "Component1" by selecting ... on the left pane, and then select Rename as
                 "Translation component".
               7. From the property pane on the right-side of the screen, select + New custom
                 property.
               8. Set the following property values:
                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
                  Property name       Value
                  Display name        Language
                  Name                Language
                  Description         The language that you want to translate the text to.
                  Property type       Input
                  Data type           Text
               9. Select Raise OnReset when value changes checkbox.
           10. Select Create.
                ７ Note
                This input property will receive the current locale ID (LCID) of the logged-in
                user.
           11. From the property pane on the right-side of the screen, select + New custom
              property.
           12. Set the following property values:
                                                                ﾉ Expand table
               Property name                 Value
               Display name                  Labels
          Property name       Value
          Name                Labels
          Description         Translated labels.
          Property type       Output
          Data type           Record
        13. Select Create.
           ７ Note
           This output property exposes the translated labels based on the input locale
           ID.
        14. On the upper-left side of the screen, select the property list drop-down and
          choose OnReset property for the component.
        15. Copy and paste the following formula in the formula bar for the OnReset property.
            Power Fx
            Set(
             varTranslations,
             Table(
                     {
                         Language: "en-us",
                         Labels: {
                             Title: "UI Tips for building canvas apps",
                             JobTitle: "Power Platform Specialist"
                         }
                     },
                     {
                         Language: "pt-br",
                         Labels: {
                             Title: "Dicas de UI para construir canvas apps",
                             JobTitle: "Especialista de Power Platform"
                         }
                     }
                 )
                )
          The formula uses Set() function to create a table with the labels in different
          languages as a dictionary. To customize this table as the dictionary for your
          translations, change the control names such as Title, JobTitle, Platform, Close, Open,
          Cancel, and so on. You can add, or remove translations for control names
          depending on your business requirement.
          The table should also have an entry for each language that your app supports.
          Each entry will have a Labels property that will contain the translated content of all
          possible buttons, inputs, and labels in your app.
        16. On the upper-left side of the screen, select the property list drop-down and
          choose Labels property for the component.
        17. Copy and paste the following formula in the formula bar for the Labels property.
            Power Fx
               LookUp(
                varTranslations,
                Language = Lower(
                    Coalesce(
                        Self.Language,
                        Language()
                    )
                )).Labels
          The formula finds the right translation entry based on the input Language using
          the Lookup() function. In case where the language isn't set, the formula uses the
          current user's language as the filter through Coalesce function.
        18. Select File -> Save to save the component library.
        19. Select Publish to publish the component library.
             Tip
            To learn more about creating, saving, and publishing component library, go to
            Create an example component library
       Your translation component library is created, saved, and published for use.
       Use the translation component in your app
       Previously, you created the translation component library for reuse. In this section, you'll
       create an app that uses the translation component library and demonstrate the
       language translation based on the selected language.
        1. Start by creating a blank canvas app with Phone layout.
        2. On the left-side of the screen, select + (Insert).
        3. On the bottom-left side of the screen, select Get more components.
        4. Select Translation component.
           ７ Note
           The name might be different if you saved the component library created
           earlier with a different name.
        5. Select Import.
        6. On the left-side of the screen, select + (Insert).
        7. Under Library components, select Translation component to add the component
          to this app.
        8. On the left-side of the screen, select the tree view.
        9. Select the translation component.
        10. On the upper-left side of the screen, select the property list drop-down and
          choose Visible property for the component.
        11. Set the value of the Visible property to false to make the component invisible on
          the app.
        12. Under Input in the list of controls, select Toggle.
        13. On the upper-left side of the screen, select the property list drop-down and
          choose OnChange property for the component.
        14. Update the formula for the OnCheck property of the toggle control to the
          following.
            Power Fx
                Set(varLanguage,"pt-br")
          In this formula, the toggle sets a variable called varLanguage with the value of "pt-
          br" using the function Set(), for Portuguese (BR) language code.
        15. Update the formula for the OnUncheck property of the toggle control to the
          following.
            Power Fx
                Set(varLanguage,"en-us")
          In this formula, the toggle sets a variable called varLanguage with the value of "en-
          us" using the function Set(), for English (US) language code.
        16. On the left-side of the screen, select the translation component.
        17. On the upper-left side of the screen, select the property list drop-down and
          choose Language property for the component.
        18. Set the formula value for Language property to varLanguage. The variable
          varLanguage is determined by the toggle configured earlier. When the toggle is
          checked, the language is set to "pt-br". When unchecked, the language is set to
          "en-us".
        19. On the left-side of the screen, select + (Insert).
        20. Select Text label.
        21. Update the label control name to Title from the right-side of the screen using the
          property pane.
              22. Select Text label again to add one more label.
              23. Update the label control name to JobTitle.
              24. Set the Title, and JobTitle labels below the toggle control so that both labels are
                 visible.
              25. Set the Text property for Title, and JobTitle labels from the upper-left side of the
                 screen to the following.
                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                   Expand table
                  Label          Formula
                  Title          'Translation component_1'.Labels.Title
                  JobTitle       'Translation component_1'.Labels.JobTitle
                   ７ Note
                   Replace 'Translation component_1' in this formula to the name of the
                   component in your app, if different.
                 Similarly, you can use different labels, and properties, as defined in the component
                 that you created earlier to pass more property values. For example, in addition to
                 Title, and JobTitle, you can create more properties such as Description, or
                 Instructions in the component library with the translated text. And then, use such
                 properties on the respective labels, as 'Translation component_1'.Labels.Description,
                 or 'Translation component_1'.Labels.Instructions.
              26. Select File -> Save, update the name for your app, and then select Save to save
                 your app. More information: Save and publish an app
            Test your app with language translation
            Now your app is using the translation component. Go to Power Apps   and select the
            app to run.
            When the toggle is selected, the language is changed to Portuguese (BR) for the labels.
            When unchecked, the language is set back to English (US).
              With this approach, you can now create your own component having the translations
              dictionary that fits your business requirement. And then, create more canvas apps that
              use the component that gives the business users the ability to use different languages.
              See also
              Add and configure controls
              Understand variables
              Formula reference
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Create accessible canvas apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       An accessible canvas app will allow users with vision, hearing, and other impairments to
       successfully use the app. In addition to being a requirement for many governments and
       organizations, following the below guidelines increases usability for all users, regardless
       of their abilities.
       Use the Accessibility Checker to help review potential accessibility issues in your app.
       Layout and color
       Common sense and uncomplicated design helps apps be more accessible to all users.
       When doing heavy customization of apps take note of the below suggestions. Power
       Apps themes are designed to meet accessibility standards.
          Ensure all elements are clearly visible and text is of sufficient size. All content must
          be easily read and understood by the naked eye.
          Ensure input elements are labeled on the screen. AccessibleLabel property defines
          what the screen reader will announce.
          If customizing colors, ensure the contrast ratio of text to background is 4.5:1 or
          greater. Software tools that assist this process are readily available.
          Ensure layout follows a logical flow when read from top to bottom, left to right.
          Create a responsive app so that low-vision users can zoom in and use it without
          scrolling back and forth.
       Keyboard
       When testing your app's accessibility, ensure the app can be used by keyboard only,
       with or without a screen reader.
       The Tab key should navigate to interactive elements in a logical order. You can create
       this with a logical app structure and by setting each control's TabIndex property
       accordingly.
          Label, Image, Icon, Shape controls: Set TabIndex to 0 if they are meant to be
          interactive. Otherwise, set TabIndex to -1.
          Do not set TabIndex greater than zero.
          Ensure that the Simplified tab index app setting is enabled.
       Screen readers
       The following screen readers have been verified to work with Power Apps:
          JAWS: Microsoft Edge
          Narrator: Microsoft Edge
          NVDA: Google Chrome, Firefox
          TalkBack: Google Chrome, Power Apps mobile
          VoiceOver: Power Apps mobile, Safari (macOS, iOS, iPadOS)
       To ensure a satisfying experience with the screen reader it is recommended to:
          Ensure all input controls have the AccessibleLabel property set.
          For images, set AccessibleLabel to an appropriate description.
           If a picture is not used as a button or a link (i.e. icon is there just for the
           decoration) and should not be read by the screen reader, make sure the
           AccessibleLabel is empty or not set.
           If a picture or an icon is used as a button, then set TabIndex to 0 and
           AccessibleLabel to the link description.
       Control type and structure
       Using the right controls and grouping them will help screen reader users understand the
       structure of the app.
          Include at least one heading on each screen of the app. You can create headings
          by setting the Role property of a Label.
          Use a Button instead of a Label for interactive text.
          Group related content in Containers.
          Be aware of unsupported design patterns.
       Multimedia
       Ensure all videos are captioned and a transcript of all audio recordings is available to the
       user. Video control supports closed captions in WebVTT format via the
       ClosedCaptionsUrl property.
       With the screen reader enabled, Timer does not announce button text, but how much
       time has passed. Announcements can't be turned off, even if timer is hidden with low
       opacity.
       Working with signatures
       If you have a signature field that uses the PenInput control, you need to enable an
       alternative method of signature input. The recommended way is to show a TextInput
       control where a user can type their name. Ensure the signing instructions are placed in
       the AccessibleLabel property and the control is placed close to the Pen input - to the
       right or immediately below.
       Next steps
       Accessible app structure
       See also
          Accessible colors in Power Apps
          Show or hide content from assistive technologies for canvas apps
          Announce dynamic changes with live regions for canvas apps
          Use the Accessibility checker
          Accessibility limitations in canvas apps
          Accessibility properties
             Organize controls in accessible canvas
             apps
             Article • 07/13/2024
             Controls in an app should be organized to help screen reader users navigate
             sequentially. A logical order also reduces confusion for keyboard users and helps them
             be more productive.
             Meaningful screen name
             When a screen is loaded, screen readers will say its name. Pick a meaningful name to
             orientate users.
             You can change the screen name in the controls tree or properties panel in Power Apps
             Studio. Select the screen, and then select     to rename the screen.
             The first element on a screen is its name. It's visually hidden and accessible only to
             screen reader users.
             When a new screen loads, Power Apps focuses the screen name. If you use SetFocus
             immediately when the screen loads, the screen name won't be read. Consider creating a
             visible title and making it a live region to announce the change in context.
             Logical control order
             Screen reader users can navigate content sequentially. The order is determined by the
             position of controls, starting from top to bottom, then left to right. The size of the
             control doesn't matter, only its X and Y properties matter.
             In this example, A appears first in the sequence since it's closest to the top. B and C have
             the same vertical position, but since B is closer to the left, and hence, it appears before
       C. D appears last since it's furthest from the top.
        ７ Note
           In Preview mode when editing an app, the control order is not updated for
           performance reasons. The order will be correct when the app is published and
           run.
           Control order is not the same as that shown in the tree view of controls in
           Power Apps Studio. The tree view sorts controls according to when they were
           added to the app. It does not affect the order of controls when the app is run.
           When a control's X or Y value is set to an expression, the control order is not
           updated when the result of the expression changes. The order is computed
           and fixed when the app is saved, using the initial state of the app to evaluate
           expressions.
            If you're changing its position because other controls are being hidden or
            shown, you can use auto-layout containers to manage X and Y for you.
            You can also position all controls in a logical way regardless of expression
            values. For example, if control A should always be below control B and B
            may be hidden sometimes, set A's Y to be If(B.Visible, B.Y + B.Height,
            B.Y + 1). The addition of 1 ensures that A is always below B, even if B is
            hidden.
      Grouped controls
      The default order is suitable for isolated content but not for grouped content. Consider
      two tiles side by side, drawn with Rectangle controls. Each tile has a heading. Below the
      heading are two buttons stacked vertically: A and B for the first tile and C and D for the
      other.
      The default order goes from top to bottom, then left to right. Hence, the order of
      controls is:
       1. Left Rectangle
       2. Right Rectangle
       3. Left heading
       4. Right heading
       5. A
       6. C
       7. B
       8. D
      This structure doesn't convey that A and B are together, and similarly, C and D are
      together.
      Use Containers to group related content. All controls in a Container will appear
      together in sequence. Within a container, controls are ordered with the same rule: top to
      bottom, then left to right.
      Replacing the Rectangles of the previous example with Containers, the control order is
      now logical for screen reader users:
       1. Left Container
       2. Left heading
       3. A
       4. B
       5. Right Container
       6. Right heading
       7. C
       8. D
      All controls in a Form Card and Gallery are automatically grouped, so you don't have to
      use a Container. However, if there are subgroups, you should still use Containers for
      them.
      In this example, a Gallery row has a thumbnail and two pieces of text on the left. On the
      right are two buttons. Visually and logically, the two sets of controls should be grouped.
      This ensures that screen reader users will encounter the left group first before the right.
       Logical keyboard navigation order
       Keyboard navigation is an important aspect of any app. For many, the keyboard is more
       efficient than using touch or a mouse. The navigation order should:
          Follow the visual flow of controls.
          Follow either an intuitive across and then down "Z" order or a down and then
          across "reverse-N" order.
          Only have a tab stop at controls that are interactive.
       AcceptsFocus specifies whether controls can be reached by keyboard. For classic
       controls, the equivalent property is TabIndex.
       Navigation order follows control order: from left-to-right, then top-to-bottom, in a "Z"
       pattern. You can customize it the same way as with control order. For example, controls
       in Containers, Form Cards and Galleries are automatically grouped. The Tab key will
       navigate through all elements inside the container before proceeding to the next
       control outside of the container.
       If the navigation order is unexpected, you should first check if the app structure is
       logical.
        ７ Note
        When controls are dynamically moved on the screen, for example, by having its X
        or Y value change according to a Power Fx expression, the navigation order will not
        be updated.
       Workaround for custom tab sequence
       For rare scenarios where the keyboard navigation order should be different from visual
       order, you can position container controls carefully to have the same effect.
       In the example below, button A is above button B. The natural tab navigation order is A,
       then B.
      To reverse the tab navigation order, put B in a Container control. Set the Y value of the
      Container to be above A. The app structure now has the Container (and B) before A.
      Hence, the tab navigation order is B, then A.
      With this technique, screen reader users will also encounter B before A when navigating
      without the Tab key.
      Custom tab indexes (retired feature)
      Custom tab indexes are those that are greater than zero. They are no longer supported.
      All TabIndex values greater than zero will be treated as zero.
      Custom tab indexes are almost always a sign of bad design. There are better alternatives
      like creating an appropriate app structure or using SetFocus to change focus.
      Some problems with custom tab indexes:
      Accessibility
      It's a serious accessibility issue to have custom tab indexes. Screen reader users navigate
      an app using its logical structure. Custom tab indexes ignore that structure. Since screen
      reader users can also navigate using Tab key, they'll be confused when they get a
      different order from other methods of navigation.
       Usability
       Users can be confused when some items appear to be skipped. They can be disoriented
       when focus moves in an unpredictable order. This is even more problematic for users
       with cognitive disabilities.
       Maintenance
       App makers have to manually update the TabIndex of multiple controls whenever a new
       one is inserted. It's easy to miss an update or get the order wrong.
       Performance
       To support custom tab indexes, the Power Apps system has to examine all controls on
       the page and compute the appropriate order. This computation is an intensive process.
       Container controls like Gallery have complicated rules on how TabIndex works for child
       controls. The system maps the app maker's desired TabIndex to a different value to
       obey these rules. This is why even if TabIndex is set to zero for all controls, the actual
       HTML tabindex will be some positive number.
       Integration with other components
       Custom tab indexes only work with built-in controls. Controls that aren't integrated into
       Power Apps' tab index system will have an unexpected navigation order. This can be a
       problem for code components. Developers of these components have to keep track of
       interactive elements and set tab index on them. They might use third-party libraries,
       which may not even provide a way to customize tab indexes. On the other hand, when
       all tab indexes are either 0 or -1, there's no need to involve Power Apps' tab index
       system. Any third-party component embedded in the app will automatically get the
       correct tab sequence.
       In the other direction, when canvas apps are embedded in another web page, custom
       tab indexes don't work. For example, in custom pages. Power Apps can't control the
       elements outside the canvas app, so the overall tab navigation order will be illogical.
       Next steps
       Accessible colors in Power Apps
       See also
                    Create accessible apps
                    Show or hide content from assistive technologies for canvas apps
                    Announce dynamic changes with live regions for canvas apps
                    Use the Accessibility checker
                    Accessibility limitations in canvas apps
                    Accessibility properties
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
          Improved canvas keyboard navigation in
          canvas apps (experimental)
          Article • 11/13/2024
          [This article is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
           ） Important
                This is an experimental feature, and will be deprecated soon. Instead of using
                this experimental feature, consider structuring an app appropriately to
                achieve the desired tab navigation order.
                Experimental features aren’t meant for production use and may have
                restricted functionality. These features are available before an official release
                so that customers can get early access and provide feedback.
          When you're nesting controls such as containers and component instances, the user
          input value for TabIndex isn't respected sometimes. Improved canvas keyboard
          navigation experimental setting improves the navigation experience in this situation
          when Tab key is pressed on the keyboard helping focus on the desired container or
          control precisely and predictably.
          This feature also adds support for handling accessibility for keyboard tabs inline with
          rest of the controls in canvas apps. And addresses manual TabIndex assignments for all
          controls.
           ７ Note
           This feature is added as "Experimental" to maintain backward compatibility and
           maintain existing app functionality.
          When this feature is turned on, it also enables the following boolean properties for all
          child controls for the selected container or component instance in canvas apps:
                                                                ﾉ
                                                                  Expand table
                Property         Description
                Name
                Prioritize       Determines the order of navigation (Z-order) for child controls on canvas when
                child controls   pressing tab key on the keyboard.
                                       On (Default): Pressing the tab key on the keyboard will first progress
                                       through all child controls before moving the focus outside of the selected
                                       container or component instance. This option is recommended for similarly
                                       nested HTML elements.
                                       Off: Pressing the tab key on the keyboard will progress through all controls
                                       only based on Z-order, ignoring parent-child relationship between controls
                                       or containers for keyboard navigation.
                                 Note: This property isn't applicable to responsive or autolayout containers.
                Enable child     Determines the value of TabIndex for child controls on canvas when pressing tab
                control focus    key on the keyboard.
                                       On (Default): Pressing the tab key behaves as per TabIndex values defined
                                       on each control.
                                       Off: Pressing the tab key doesn't move focus to any child control within the
                                       selected container or component instance. Sets the TabIndex value to -1 for
                                       all child controls.
              Configure improved canvas keyboard
              navigation in your app
              If not already enabled, follow these steps to enable this feature in your app, and set the
              properties mentioned earlier.
                  1. Sign in to Power Apps       .
                  2. Select Apps from the left-pane.
                  3. Select your app, and then select Edit.
                  4. In Power Apps Studio, select Settings > Upcoming features > Experimental.
                  5. Select Improved canvas keyboard navigation to turn on the feature.
       6. Close settings.
      Now that you've enabled the experimental feature, you'll see two new properties for
      controls and containers—Prioritize child controls, and Enable child control focus.
      Change the property values as appropriate.
      Examples
      Now that you understand the new feature with improved canvas keyboard navigation,
      let's take a look at a few examples to understand the behavior when the tab key is
      pressed.
      Default improved canvas keyboard navigation behavior
      The following example shows multiple Text input controls, and several nesting scenarios.
      The number displayed in the input represents the value of the TabIndex property. There
      are two nested containers, and component controls overlaid on top of each other.
      The default order is determined by the relative position of the controls. When focus
      enters a container or a component, tabs first traverse the children of the container
      before moving on to the next available control.
      When Prioritize child controls is set to Off
      In the following example, each container and component control has the Prioritize child
      controls property set to "Off". All inputs are therefore considered to be on the same
      level of nesting, so the order is determined purely by their X/Y position relative to the
      screen.
      Advanced configuration with mixed settings
      In the following example, the orange outlined containers have Prioritize child controls
      property set to "Off". All others controls have this property set to "On". Also, a custom
      TabIndex property has been set for some inputs, indicated by the number shown in each
      input.
      Tab order first proceeds through the containers and controls with TabIndex value of
      greater than 0, and then proceeds through all others with value of 0. This behavior was
      also the in the earlier implementation.
              See also
                    Create accessible apps
                    Accessible app structure
                    Accessible colors in Power Apps
                    Use the Accessibility checker
                    Accessibility limitations in canvas apps
                    Accessibility properties
                    Improved canvas keyboard navigation in canvas apps (video)
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
        Accessible colors for canvas apps
        Article • 12/16/2022
        Colors used in a canvas app should be accessible to color-blind and low-vision users. All
        Power Apps themes are accessible by default. When modifying colors used in an app,
        follow these guidelines to ensure that they remain accessible. There are several tools
        available online which can help you identify color contrast issues.
        Minimum contrast for text
           Text and its background must have a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1
           Large text must have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1
           Disabled text has no contrast requirements
        In practical terms, all interactive controls must have adequate color contrast between:
           Color and Fill
           PressedColor and PressedFill
           HoverColor and HoverFill
        Minimum contrast for non-text
           Non-text components, such as icons and borders, must have a contrast ratio of at
           least 3:1 with the colors outside of them.
           Disabled and decorative components have no contrast requirements.
        User interface components
        All interactive controls must have adequate color contrast between:
           FocusedBorderColor and color outside the control
        Additional color contrast checks apply for controls where the entire area is interactive or
        informative. For example, a Button or an Icon used as a button. This ensures that the
        boundaries of the control are clear and users know where they can click or tap.
        If there is a border for such controls, there should be adequate color contrast between:
           BorderColor and color outside the control
           PressedBorderColor and color outside the control
           HoverBorderColor and color outside the control
       If there is no border, there should be adequate color contrast between:
          Fill and color outside the control
          PressedFill and color outside the control
          HoverFill and color outside the control
       Graphical objects
       If an image conveys important information, consider checking it for contrast issues. This
       applies to controls where an image can be shown: Audio, Image, Microphone, and
       Video.
       For video content, consider checking it for contrast issues. Alternatively or additionally,
       provide closed captions that describe the video.
       Provide other visual cues
       Ensure that the app does not convey information with just color. For example, users with
       red-green color blindness will not be able to distinguish a red error message from a
       green success message.
       Additional cues like an Icon or text styles like Italic and Underline can help convey
       meaning.
       Next steps
       Show or hide content from assistive technologies for canvas apps
       See also
          Create accessible apps
          Accessible app structure
          Announce dynamic changes with live regions for canvas apps
          Use the Accessibility checker
          Accessibility limitations in canvas apps
          Accessibility properties
       Show or hide content from assistive
       technologies for canvas apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       In most cases, all users should be able to access all content, but you might occasionally
       want to show content only to sighted users or only to screen-reader users. For example,
       you might want only screen-reader users to access descriptions of chart trends that are
       obvious to sighted users. You might also want to hide an icon from screen-reader users
       if an adjacent label describes it. Another description on the icon would be unnecessarily
       verbose.
       Hide content from all users
          Set Visible to false.
       Hide content from sighted users and show it to
       screen-reader users
       Use one or more techniques listed below:
          Set Size to 0.
          Set Width and Height to 1.
          Set X, Y, or both properties such that the control is outside the screen.
          Set Color and related properties to transparent.
          Position a rectangle Shape above the content, and set Fill to the same color as the
          background color of the screen.
        ７ Note
        Users can still use a keyboard to access an interactive control, such as a Button,
        even if you hide it by using one of the techniques in the previous list. Set TabIndex
        to -1 if you want to prevent users from accessing the control by pressing the Tab
        key.
       Hide content from screen-reader users and
       show it to sighted users
          For Image, Icon, and Shape controls, set AccessibleLabel to the empty string "".
       Next steps
       Announce dynamic changes with live regions for canvas apps
       See also
          Create accessible apps
          Accessible app structure
          Accessible colors in Power Apps
          Use the Accessibility checker
          Accessibility limitations in canvas apps
          Accessibility properties
             Announce dynamic changes with live
             regions for canvas apps
             Article • 12/16/2022
             Dynamic changes pose challenges to the visually-impaired. Users who access an app
             through a screen reader are focused on one part of the app. If a change happens
             elsewhere, those users won't be aware of it.
             You can solve this problem by adding live regions, which screen readers track. If content
             changes in a live region, a screen reader will announce that change.
             The underlying mechanism for live regions are aria-live regions  , so the same
             guidelines apply.
             Example uses of live regions
             You can use live regions to notify users when events such as these occur:
                  A validation error occurs in a form.
                  An action triggered by a button is successful. For example, a user might select a
                  button to add an item to a collection, and a live region could show the message
                  "Item added".
                  The user selected a different tab.
                  A background timer refreshes a news feed.
             Create and configure a live region
             You can configure only a Label control as a live region. Its Live property determines
             what type of live region it is.
                  Off: Not a live region. Screen readers don't announce changes.
                  Polite: Screen readers announce changes after finishing speaking. Use this value
                  for non-critical notifications that don't require immediate attention.
                  Assertive: Screen readers interrupt themselves to announce changes immediately.
                  Use this for critical notifications that require immediate attention.
             If the text content of a live region changes, screen readers will announce the entire text
             content, not just the changed portion. If the value of the Text property is set to the
             empty string "", the screen reader doesn't announce anything.
       To repeat a message, clear text contents by setting the value of the Text property to the
       empty string "" and then set the value to the message again.
       Best practices
          Always set Visible to true. Some screen readers don't detect live regions that
          disappear and reappear.
          Avoid changing the value of Live. Some screen readers don't detect when a non-
          live region becomes live and vice-versa.
          Position the live region in a logical position in the app, even if it isn't visible. Ensure
          that its contents are sensible in context with the elements before and after it. Users
          can access a live region anytime through regular navigation with a screen reader,
          not just when changes happen.
       Next steps
       Use the Accessibility checker
       See also
          Create accessible apps
          Accessible app structure
          Accessible colors in Power Apps
          Show or hide content from assistive technologies for canvas apps
          Accessibility limitations in canvas apps
          Accessibility properties
        Review a canvas app for accessibility in
        Power Apps
        Article • 12/16/2022
        Users who have vision, hearing, or other impairments can use your canvas app more
        easily and successfully if you consider accessibility as you design how the app looks and
        behaves. If you're not sure how to make your app more accessible, you can run the
        Accessibility checker in Power Apps Studio. This tool not only finds potential accessibility
        issues but also explains why each might be a potential problem for users who have a
        specific disability and offers suggestions on how to resolve each issue. The Accessibility
        checker detects screen-reader and keyboard issues for you, and you can find
        information about how to fix color-contrast issues by using accessible colors.
        The Accessibility checker helps you identify settings that you might want to change, but
        you should always consider the suggestions in the context of what your app needs to
        do. Many suggestions may be worthwhile, but you can ignore any that might do more
        harm than good.
        Find accessibility issues
         1. In the upper-right corner of Power Apps Studio, select the icon for the App
           checker.
         2. In the menu that appears, select Accessibility.
           A list of issues appears, sorted first by severity and then by screen.
       3. Select the arrow next to an item to show details about it.
         4. Select the back arrow to return to the list of items.
         5. If you decide to address an issue, select it to open the affected property.
         6. After you change one or more properties, select Re-check to update the list of
          issues.
          Resolved items disappear from the list, and new items may appear.
       Severity of issues
       The Accessibility checker classifies each issue as an error, a warning, or a tip based the
       issue's severity.
                       Errors identify issues that make the app difficult or impossible to use and
                       understand for users who have a disability.
                       Warnings identify issues that make the app difficult to use or understand for most
                       but not all users who have a disability.
                       Tips help you improve the experience of users who have a disability.
                Types of issues
                  Issue         Severity     Issue Description            How to fix                     Why fix
                  Title
                  Missing       Error        When the accessible-         Edit the accessible-label      If the accessible-
                  accessible                 label property of an         property to describe the       label property
                  label                      interactive control          item.                          contains no text,
                                             contains no text. An                                        people who can’t
                                             interactive control can                                     see the screen
                                             be inherently                                               won't understand
                                             interactive, as a button                                    what’s in images
                                             is, or it has interactive                                   and controls.
                                             properties. For
                                             example, you might
                                             have set the OnSelect
                                             property of an image
                                             or set its TabIndex
                                             property to 0 or
                                             higher.
                  Focus         Error        When the                     Change the                     If the focus isn't
                  isn't                      FocusBorderThickness         FocusedBorderThickness         visible, people who
                  showing                    of a control is set to 0.    property to a value that's     don't use a mouse
                                             It is good practice to       higher than 0.                 can't see it when
                                             ensure a proper color-                                      they interact with
                                             contrast ratio between                                      the app.
                                             the focus border and
                                             the control itself so it's
                                             clearly visible.
                  Missing       Warning      When the                     Set the                        Without captions,
                  captions                   ClosedCaptionsURL            ClosedCaptionsURL              people who have
                                             property of an Audio         property to the URL for        disabilities might
                                             or Video control is          captions.                      not get any
                                             empty.                                                      information from a
                                                                                                         video or audio
                                                                                                         segment.
               Issue       Severity   Issue Description       How to fix                Why fix
               Title
               Missing     Warning    When any of several     Select the warning, and   By changing this
               helpful                settings (such as       then set the property to  property setting,
               control                showing labels and      true.                     you give the user
               settings               markers for charts and                            better information
                                      showing default                                   about how the
                                      controls for Audio,                               controls in your app
                                      Video, and Pen input                              function.
                                      controls) are turned
                                      off.
               HTML        Warning    When a control other    Use a method other than   Your app won't
               won't be               than an HTML text       HTML, or remove the       work correctly or be
               accessible             control contains        HTML from this element.   accessible if you
                                      HTML. In that case,                               add interactive
                                      Power Apps doesn't                                HTML elements.
                                      support accessibility of
                                      custom HTML
                                      elements.
               Turn off    Warning    When an Audio or        Set the control's         Video and audio
               autostart              Video control's         Autostart property to     files that play
                                      Autostart property is   false.                    automatically can
                                      set to true.                                      distract users. Let
                                                                                        them choose
                                                                                        whether to play a
                                                                                        clip.
               Revise      Tip        When a screen has a     Give the screen a name    People who are
               screen                 default name, which     that describes what's on  blind, have low
               name                   will be read out by     the screen or what it's   vision, or a reading
                                      screen readers when     used for.                 disability rely on
                                      users navigate the                                screen names to
                                      app.                                              navigate using the
                                                                                        screen reader.
               Add State   Tip        When a control that     Set the ShowValue         Users won't get
               indication             has a state, such as a  property of the control   confirmation of
               text                   toggle, but the value   to true to show its       their actions if the
                                      labels are turned off.  current state.            state of the control
                                                                                        doesn't appear.
                Issue        Severity    Issue Description         How to fix                  Why fix
                Title
                Check the    Tip         When the TabIndex         Set all                     The navigation
                order of                 property is greater       TabIndex properties to 0    order should mirror
                the                      than 0. App creators      or -1 whenever possible.    the order in which
                screen                   can set custom tab        Instead of using            controls appear on
                items                    orders by setting         TabIndex, use the           the screen, which is
                                         the TabIndex property     Enhanced group control      the default. If
                                         to a value greater than   to change the navigation    manual adjustments
                                         0 but it is highly        order from the default. If  are made, it is
                                         discouraged as it is      values of TabIndex          difficult to maintain
                                         hard to get right,        greater than 0 must be      the correct order
                                         maintain, and can         used, make sure that        especially in the
                                         break screen readers.     your screen elements        presence of the
                                                                   match the order in which    browser's address
                                                                   you'd want to tab           bar and other
                                                                   through them.               controls outside of
                                                                                               the app. This can
                                                                                               make a screen
                                                                                               reader very difficult
                                                                                               to use. When read
                                                                                               by the screen
                                                                                               reader, the controls
                                                                                               should be
                                                                                               presented in the
                                                                                               same order in which
                                                                                               they are seen on
                                                                                               the screen, instead
                                                                                               of an order that's
                                                                                               less intuitive. 
                Add          Tip         When an app contains      Add a Text input control    Some users can't
                another                  a Pen control. This tip   in addition to the Pen      use a pen and
                input                    reminds you to            control for an accessible   require another way
                method                   include a separate        experience.                 to provide
                                         method of input.                                      information (for
                                                                                               example, by typing
                                                                                               a signature).
               Next steps
               Accessibility limitations in canvas apps
               See also
                     Create accessible apps
        Accessible app structure
        Accessible colors in Power Apps
        Show or hide content from assistive technologies for canvas apps
        Announce dynamic changes with live regions for canvas apps
        Accessibility properties
       Accessibility limitations in canvas apps
       Article • 03/05/2024
       You can design and build accessible canvas apps with built-in controls. Sometimes, the
       combination of app design, use of various controls, and the configured control
       properties may result in an app to have an inaccessible user interface.
       In this article, you'll learn about these accessibility limitations in canvas apps, and how
       can you improve the app interface to make it more accessible.
       Dialogs and overlays
       Dialogs and user interfaces that appear on top of other content are not supported.
       These overlays require focus management, hiding background content from screen
       readers, and appropriate control roles.
       Consider the following:
          Use separate screens for each “dialog”.
          Use the Notify function.
          Create a code component that implements an accessible dialog.
       Tabbed interfaces
       A tabbed interface is made up of a list of tabs and a panel that shows content
       associated with the selected tab.
       The only built-in control that supports tabbed interfaces is the Tab list. Avoid using
       Galleries to create tabs. The list of tabs should be navigable with arrow keys.
       Appropriate control roles and states are required.
       Consider the following:
          Use the built-in Tab list.
          Create a code component that implements an accessible tabbed interface.
       Custom tables
       The only built-in control that supports two-dimensional data is the Data Table. Avoid
       using Galleries to present data in rows and columns. Rows and columns have to be
       annotated so that screen reader users can understand their structure and navigate cells.
       Consider the following:
          Use the built-in Data Table.
          Present data in one direction only with a Gallery.
          Create a code component that implements an accessible table.
       Custom combo boxes
       It is possible to emulate a combo box by combining a Text Input and a Gallery.
       However, combo boxes assembled from built-in controls are not accessible. Combo
       boxes must handle arrow keys and set appropriate roles and states on its components.
       Consider the following:
          Use the built-in Combo box or Drop down.
          Create a code component that implements an accessible combo box.
       Scrollable content
       Keyboard users can't scroll Forms, Scrollable screens, and Containers if there are no
       interactive controls inside them.
       For Galleries with no interactive content, you can set TabIndex on the Gallery itself so
       that keyboard users can focus on it and use arrow keys to scroll it.
       For Labels, setting TabIndex will make them focusable for keyboard scrolling. However,
       it will also turn them into buttons. Don't making labels scrollable if they're not meant to
       be buttons. Ensure the Label is large enough to fit text. The AutoHeight property can be
       used to automatically adjust the control's size when it is inside a Form, Scrollable
       screen, or Gallery.
       Expandable sections
       Expandable sections, also known as disclosures, contain content that is hidden until the
       user presses a button. There is no built-in support for these elements but there is a
       workaround.
       Mention the expanded state in the AccessibleLabel of the button. For example, “Show
       more details. Collapsed.”.
       Update the AccessibleLabel when the expanded state changes. Position the expanded
       content immediately after the button so that screen reader users can logically navigate
            to it. Push other content down when the section expands.
            Landmarks
            You can create headings with Label controls. Navigation, banner, and other landmarks
            are not supported. Power Apps automatically sets the main landmark to the app screen.
            For other landmarks, use a heading as a workaround.
            Custom roles and states
            There is no built-in support for custom roles and states. Hence, it's not recommended to
            create composite check boxes, sliders, and toggles from built-in controls.
            Consider the following:
                 Mention the control's role and state in its AccessibleLabel. For example, if an Icon
                 is used as a check box, its label could be “Enable notifications. Check box.
                 Checked.”.
                 Create a code component that sets WAI-ARIA roles   and states  as appropriate.
            Custom keyboard handling
            It is not possible to react to specific key presses. For example, you can't have custom
            behavior for arrow keys or the Escape key. Hence, it is not possible to compose list-like
            controls like radio buttons from built-in controls. Nor can you create overlays that can
            be dismissed with the Escape key.
            Enter or Space key handling is supported with OnSelect. However, this property is also
            triggered by other input methods like mouse clicks. There is no way to distinguish the
            source of the event.
            Focus management
            SetFocus function can be used to change focus but it only works in limited scenarios.
            It is not possible to detect when controls receive or lose focus.
            Hide content from screen reader users only
             There is no aria-hidden   equivalent to show content to sighted users but hide it for
             screen reader users. Only a few scenarios are supported.
             Next steps
             Accessibility properties
             See also
                  Create accessible apps
                  Accessible app structure
                  Accessible colors in Power Apps
                  Show or hide content from assistive technologies for canvas apps
                  Announce dynamic changes with live regions for canvas apps
                  Use the Accessibility checker
            Send notification from an app
            Article • 11/11/2023
            You can send a push notification from one app to another or to the same app. In canvas
            apps, you can send notifications by using the Power Apps Notification connector.
            In this article, the sample app used for notifications is built from the default Case
            Management app template.
              ７ Note
              Before you begin, create push notifications for the Power Apps mobile app. More
              information: Create push notifications for the Power Apps mobile app.
               1. In Power Apps  , go to the app to which you want to send push notifications.
               2. Copy the app ID. More information: Get an app ID
               3. In the left pane, select Data - Connections.
               4. Edit the app. More information: Edit an app
               5. Select View - Data sources.
               6. Select Add data source.
               7. Select New Connection.
               8. Select Power Apps Notification.
               9. Paste the app ID copied from the previous step.
       10. Select Connect.
       11. Add the push notification connection to the trigger app using the similar steps.
        In our example, we use the same app as the trigger app. The user who reassigns
        the case also triggers a push notification to the new case owner.
       12. From the push notification connection, call the SendPushNotification method.
         In our example, we trigger this notification by using the OnSuccess property in a
         form.
       Syntax
                                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
                Name                      Description
                SendPushNotification      Sends a push notification to the app that's specified in the connection
                                          settings for the notification.
               Parameters
                                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
                Name         Type               Description
                recipients   String array,      A list of:
                             required                 Email addresses for users or security groups
                                                      Object IDs for users or security groups in Microsoft Entra ID
                message      String, required   The message body of the push notification.
                openApp      Boolean,           Whether to open the app when the user taps the push notification.
                             optional
                params       Parameters,        Key-value parameters to pass with the notification. These can be
                             optional           further processed in the app to open a specific page and load a
                                                specific state.
               Sample formulas
               Send a basic notification.
                  Power Apps
                  PowerAppsNotification.SendPushNotification(
                       {
                            recipients: ["f60ccf6f-7579-4f92-967c-2920473c966b", "72f988bf-86f1-
                  41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"],
                            message: "A new case was assigned to you."
                       }
                  )
               Send a notification that opens an app and passes along specific parameters.
                  Power Apps
                  PowerAppsNotification.SendPushNotification(
                       {
                recipients: ["email1@contoso.com", "email2@contoso.com"],
                message: "message in the notification toast",
                params: Table({key:"notificationKey", value:"The value for 
          notificationKey"}),
                openApp: true
             }
          )
        See also
            Create push notifications for the Power Apps mobile app
            Power Apps Notification reference
         Disconnect Git version control to edit
         canvas apps
         Article • 05/14/2025
         Git version control for editing apps has been removed and is no longer supported.
         If your app currently uses this feature, follow these steps to disconnect it:
            1. Open your canvas app for editing in Power Apps Studio. On the command bar, select
               Settings.
            2. Select Git version control and then select Disconnect.
         If you are using PASopa, download your app from your Git provider and pack the .zip file to an
         .msapp file   . Once your .msapp file is uploaded to Power Apps, follow the steps above to
         disconnect.
            ７ Note
            Git version control is replaced with the source control integration feature. More
            information: Source code integration
         Understand new, preview, experimental,
         and retired features in canvas apps
         Article • 04/29/2025
         With every release, we make changes and add features to make Power Apps the best tool to fit
         your needs. We move the product forward.
         At the same time, keeping your apps running smoothly is our top priority. Despite our best
         efforts, any change or improvement might unintentionally introduce a side effect, and your app
         might not work exactly the way it did before.
         To ensure enhancements don't adversely affect current apps, we take features through a
         progression of stages. These stages give you a chance to try out the feature and provide us
         with feedback, and for us to gradually roll out the feature while watching for any problems.
         This article describes this process and how you can control your exposure to features that are
         under development.
         At each stage, the number of people who use the feature increases, helping us to validate that
         the feature is what you need and that we're not introducing an unintended side effect.
         Your feedback is critical throughout this process. Post your feedback in the Power Apps
         Community Forum .
         Feature roll out stages
         In short, the stages are:
              New: These features are new and generally available (GA), fully supported, and
              documented. Generally these features are on by default for new apps, but might take
              time to deploy everywhere. Enable for existing apps on your own schedule.
              Preview: These features are almost done and will be New soon. But at this stage there still
              might be some changes made. This stage is the last opportunity for feedback. These
              features are generally turned off by default and are documented. These features aren't
              GA, shouldn't be used in production, and are covered by the Preview terms of service   .
              Experimental: An early stage "Preview," these features truly are experiments and might
              never reach GA. We're assessing the value proposition and design of the feature, and the
              feature might radically change or be removed completely at any time. These features are
              off by default and aren't generally documented. These features aren't GA, shouldn't be
              used in production, and are covered by the Preview terms of service   .
              Retired: These features are GA features but are on their way to being removed from the
              product. They're still fully supported and document, but we either have a new, better way
               to do the same thing or usage is low. Disable for existing apps on your own schedule.
               Generally, these features are off by default.
         How long does a feature remain in each stage? It varies from feature to feature. We look at
         many factors, including the number of apps that use the feature, the number of issues
         reported, and how urgently the feature is needed. Features can remain in a stage for weeks to
         many months. We might also skip some stages if we don't believe it would be helpful.
         New
         Enable New features for all your new apps, and enable for existing apps when you're ready.
         New features are recently added to the product. They're generally available and fully
         supported. You can use New features with confidence.
         In general, New features are enabled by default when you create a new app. When a New
         feature is first introduced, it might not be enabled in all regions initially, allowing us time to
         deploy and gather information on usage and any problems. If you run into a problem with a
         feature, the switch can be used as a workaround to disable it until we can correct the problem.
         Eventually, New features are no longer "new". If there's no breaking change, the switch is
         removed and the feature is enabled for all apps. If there's a breaking change, the old behavior
         is available in the app settings under Retired as a disable switch.
         New features are fully documented in the Power Apps documentation.
         Preview
         Enable Preview features if you want to test upcoming functionalities before the feature is
         enabled for everyone.
         Preview features are well on their way to being a valued part of the product. But, they aren't
         generally available yet and aren't fully supported, instead offered under the preview terms of
         service   . Preview features shouldn't be used in production.
         In general, Preview features aren't enabled by default when creating a new app. You should
         only enable a Preview feature for testing purposes and to provide feedback before the feature
         becomes generally available. This stage is the last stop for feedback before the feature is
         finalized.
         Generally, Preview features graduate to New.
         Preview features are documented in the Power Apps documentation. Use the Power Apps
         Experimental Features forum    or Power Apps blog   for more information. Use the
         "Experimental" forum as many Preview features start out as Experimental features and there
         may already be information or comments there that can be helpful to you.
         Provide feedback on Preview features in the Power Apps Experimental Features forum  .
         Again, "Experimental" also covers Preview features in the forum.
         Experimental
         Enable Experimental features if you're an early adopter, see something useful to you, and
         would like to help test the feature.
         Experimental features are in an early-stage preview that is true to the name "experiment". This
         feature might significantly change or be removed at any time. These features are far from
         being generally available, aren't fully supported, and are offered under the preview terms of
         service  . Experimental features shouldn't be used in production.
         Experimental features are never enabled by default when creating a new app. You should only
         enable an Experimental feature for testing purposes and to provide feedback. If you don't
         know what the feature is referring to or its possible impact, you likely shouldn't turn it on.
         Eventually Experimental features either graduate to Preview or are removed from the product.
         Experimental features typically aren't documented. The short description in the App settings
         pane might be the only information about them. Use the Power Apps Experimental Features
         forum  or Power Apps blog  for more information.
         Provide feedback on Experimental features in the Power Apps Experimental Features forum   .
         Retired
         Enable Retired features only if you need an old behavior. When appropriate, disable these
         features in your existing apps.
         Retired features, while fully supported and widely available, might be phased out in favor of
         newer, improved methods or due to low usage. Maintaining every feature alongside ongoing
         product updates incurs overhead.
         When a feature moves from New to Retired, the meaning of its switch is often inverted. For
         example, where "Delayed load" was on by default as a New feature, the Retired version
         becomes "Disable delayed load" and is off by default.
     Retired features are generally not enabled when creating a new app. They're provided for
     existing apps that still depend on the old behavior.
     Retired features will eventually be removed from the product after enough time has passed
     and usage is low. Removals are well communicated ahead of time for breaking changes.
     Retired features are fully documented in the Important changes (deprecations) coming in
     Power Platform.
     Defaults
     In general, when creating a new app:
        New switches are On. These features are generally available and fully supported. There
        might be a small delay for the switch to be turned on by default as we continue rolling
        out.
        Preview switches are Off, but can be enabled for testing and feedback. Enable the
        features that are interesting to you before they're enabled for all apps, for testing and
        feedback. Preview features aren't ready for production.
        Experimental switches are Off. These features are for early adopters and should only be
        used with caution; they can be changed or removed at any time. Experimental features
        aren't ready for production.
        Retired switches are Off. These features are generally available and fully supported, but
        will eventually be removed from the product. Avoid using these features.
     As existing apps go through their lifecycle, you might want to take advantage of new features
     or to remove dependencies on retired features by adjusting these switches in your app.
     Turning New switches On and Retired switches Off brings existing apps into alignment with
     new apps and the future of the product.
     Controlling which features are enabled
     Experimental and preview features are listed in the app's Settings > Updates. From within the
     app, select Settings, and then select Updates. Select New, Preview, Experimental, or Retired
     features using the available tabs.
     Each feature has a toggle switch. Off generally means that the feature is disabled, except in the
     Retired section where the title of the feature indicates if the switch disables the feature.
     In some cases, you might need to close and reopen the app after you change a setting. The
     feature description should indicate when you must perform this step.
     At the top of the Settings panel, General settings provide control over fully shipped, generally
     available features that don't belong in any of these feature categories and are a stable part of
     the product. We limit the number of these settings as much as possible to keep things simple
     and to reduce the size of our testing matrix.
     These settings are specific to each app, so changing a toggle switch affects only the app that's
     currently open. If you create an app, these switches revert to their default settings for that app.
     Preview and Experimental features without a
     switch
     Sometimes a tag is added in the product to indicate that a particular feature is Preview or
     Experimental without having a switch in Updates. For example, a control in an Insert menu
         might have the name Grid (Preview) or the entry point for the Monitor was once Monitor
         (Preview). In these cases, the feature can't be used without first seeing this tag.
         Like the Preview and Experimental feature categories previously described, these features
         shouldn't be used in production and are offered under the preview terms of service   .
            Preview an app
            Article • 05/19/2023
            When you create an app, it's helpful to preview your app and see how it will look for
            your users. Use the preview app feature to see how your app appears on various devices
            and in different sizes. Previewing an app is especially beneficial when you're building a
            responsive app.
            To preview an app, open the app for editing in Power Apps Studio   , in the actions
            menu, select     Preview the app.
            Use the preview options to see how your app looks on different devices using the device
            picker.
            Legend:
               1. Tablet Devices: Allows you to select from common tablet devices from several
                  manufacturers, along with the ability to select a custom size based on your needs.
                  This option shows a device frame and device safe zone, which is shown as the
                  black area either on the top and bottom or sides depending on the orientation of
                  the device. It also shows a black area with the home bar at the bottom.
               2. Mobile devices: Lets you select from common phones from different
                  manufacturers, along with the ability to select a custom size based on your needs.
                  This option shows a device frame and device safe zone, which is shown as the
          black area either on the top and bottom or sides depending on the orientation of
          the device. It also shows a black area with the home bar at the bottom.
         3. Web view: See how your app looks like on a web browser. You can select a window
          size to fill the browser window, or you can select canvas size to see how the app
          looks while authoring without leaving the preview.
         4. Orientation Switcher: Switch between vertical and horizontal orientation. The
          Orientation Switcher option is disabled if the Lock Orientation setting turned on.
       If you're developing a responsive app, the content within the app adjusts to fit the
       screen size of the device being used.
       Watch this video to learn how the device picker helps you confirm that your app is
       adjusting correctly.
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=6fb4ee34-2393-4bf2-b3b9-
       749b8a7cd257&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
       apps%2Fpreview-app
       Display settings
       The way your app behaves with each preview option is determined by app type and
       your display settings.
          If an app is created using the phone layout, you can still preview it on the web and
          tablet devices using the device picker. However, if an app isn't created using a
          responsive layout, it then appears in a phone shape on the web and selected tablet
          device. You get a message explaining why the preview is narrow. If you’d like an
          app to be responsive to phone, tablet, and web sizes then we recommend
          selecting the tablet option when you create an app. You can use responsive auto
          layout containers to determine the flow of the content for different screen sizes
          including phones. More information: Building responsive canvas apps
          Under Display settings:
            Scale To Fit: When set to On your entire app is scaled to fit the available space.
            If a smaller space is available to the app, you may notice empty space on the
            sides to accommodate the scaling. When a user plays the app, they will also see
            the empty space.
            Lock Orientation: When set to On, the Switch Orientation button in the device
            picker is disabled.
       Known Issues
                    If Scale To Fit setting is on and Lock Aspect Ratio is off, your preview won't be
                    accurate. This configuration isn't recommended. More information: Change screen
                    size and orientation of canvas apps
                    If Scale to Fit is off and you resize your browser window while in preview mode,
                    the preview won't be accurate. To address the issue, close and reopen the preview
                    once your browser window is in the desired size.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
        Save and publish canvas apps
        Saving and publishing an app are two different actions:
             Save stores your latest changes so you and other app editors can keep working on them.
             Saving doesn't change what end users see.
             Publish makes your saved changes available to everyone the app is shared with.
        Use this article to save your work, turn AutoSave on or off, publish updates, and manage app
        versions. To share an app with users, see Share a canvas app.
        Save your app
        Open your app for editing in Power Apps  , and then save your work in one of these ways:
             Select Save    on the command bar to save any unsaved changes. Each save creates a new
             entry in the app's version history.
             Select the dropdown arrow next to Save and choose one of the following options:
                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                        Expand table
              Option                What it does
              Save with version     Saves the app and lets you add notes that describe what changed in this
              notes                 version.
              Save as               Creates a copy of the app with a different name.
              Download a copy       Downloads a local .msapp file of the app for backup or offline editing.
        Turn AutoSave on or off
        By default, Power Apps saves your work automatically every two minutes. AutoSave helps prevent
        lost changes if your browser or device closes unexpectedly.
        To change the setting:
           1. On the command bar, select Settings, and then go to the General tab.
           2. In the Auto save section, set the Auto save toggle to On or Off.
       Tip
      Even with AutoSave on, select Save before you close the browser tab to make sure your
      most recent changes are captured.
     Publish your app
     Publishing your app pushes your latest saved changes to the users you've shared the app with.
      1. On the command bar, select Publish. If you have unsaved changes, you're prompted to save
        first. After you save, select Publish again.
      2. (Optional) Enter a description of what's new in this version.
      3. Select Publish this version.
     Users see the new version the next time they open or refresh the app.
      ７ Note
         When you publish a canvas app, the app runs on the latest version of Power Apps and
         picks up the newest features and performance improvements. If you haven't published
               in several months, you usually see an immediate performance benefit when you
               republish.
               To make app startup faster, Power Apps caches some details (such as environment and
               connection information) in the user's browser. Cached data stays until the browser
               clears it. For steps, see Clear your browser cache.
        Create an app description with Copilot (preview)
        If your app is in a managed environment, you can use AI to help create a description for your
        app.
        In the Publishing dialog box, select Create descriptions using AI when you save and publish your
        app.
        You can also generate an app description by going to Settings > General. Under Description,
        select Create descriptions using AI.
        Admins can disable this feature for managed environments in Power Platform admin. For more
        information, see Managed Environments panel.
          ７ Note
          If you don't add a description before publishing the app, Copilot generates one after the
          app is published. Makers can edit this description if Copilot doesn't generate it correctly.
          ） Important
               To use this capability, your app must be in a managed environment.
               Preview features aren't meant for production use and can have restricted functionality.
               These features are available before an official release so customers get early access and
               provide feedback.
               For more information, go to our preview terms   .
               This capability is powered by Azure OpenAI Service.
               This capability isn't available in all regions yet and can be subject to usage limits or
               capacity throttling.
               To learn about capabilities and limitations of AI-powered and Copilot features in Power
               Apps, see Responsible AI FAQs for Power Apps.
        Identify and manage app versions
        Each time you save the app, Power Apps adds a new entry to the version history. The version
        marked Live is the one your shared users currently run. Other versions are saved drafts that you
        can review or restore.
        To view all versions of an app:
          1. Go to Power Apps   , and in the left pane, select Apps.
          2. Select the More commands icon     next to the app name.
          3. Select Details > Details.
          4. Go to the Versions tab.
                                                                                             
        From this tab you can:
             See which version is Live.
             Select an earlier version and publish it to roll back. For details, see Restore a canvas app to a
             previous version.
        To publish the most recent saved version, open the app in the studio and select the publish icon
           .
          ７ Note
               Newly published changes can take a few seconds to appear when users launch the app.
               Publishing time depends on app complexity and can take a few minutes for large apps.
               If users already have the app open when you publish, they need to reload the app to
               see the new version.
            App preload is on by default to reduce wait time. You can turn it off if needed. For
            more information, see Create performant apps.
      In-app notifications for new versions
      When you publish an update, users who currently have the app open see two notifications:
         1. A new version of this app is coming. We'll let you know when it's available. — appears
          while the new version is being prepared.
         2. You're using an old version of this app. Refresh to use the latest version. — appears when
          the new version is ready. Users select Refresh to load it.
      Where these notifications appear
                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
       Scenario                                       Notification available?
       Canvas app on web                              Yes
       Canvas app embedded in an iframe               Yes
       Customized SharePoint forms                    No
       Canvas app embedded in Microsoft Teams         No
       Canvas app embedded in Power BI                No
       Power Apps web part                            No
      Related information
          Run an app in a browser or on a mobile device.
          Rename a canvas app.
          Restore a canvas app to an earlier version.
          Share a canvas app with other users.
       Last updated on 05/27/2026
         Share a canvas app with your organization
         10/10/2025
         When you create a canvas app, you can define which users in your organization can use the
         app, modify it, and even re-share it. You can specify individual users by name or designate a
         security group in Microsoft Entra ID.
         Prerequisites
         Before you share an app, you must save it (not locally) and then publish it.
              Give your app a meaningful name and a clear description, so that people know what your
              app does and they can easily find it in a list. Select Settings > specify a name, and then
              enter a description.
              Whenever you make changes, you must save and publish the app again if you want
              others to see those changes.
            ） Important
            For a shared app to function as you expect, you must also manage permissions for the
            data source or sources on which the app is based, such as Microsoft Dataverse or Excel.
            You might also need to share other resources on which the app depends, such as flows,
            gateways, or connections.
         Share an app from Power Apps
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Apps.
            3. Select the app that you want to share.
            4. On the command bar, select Share. Or select the Commands menu next to your app
              name and then select Share.
            5. In the Share dialog box, type the names or alias of the user or security groups in
              Microsoft Entra ID.
            6. Select the down arrow to choose permissions for the app. Options include:
                    User: Can use the app only.
         Co-Owner: Can use, edit, and share the app but not delete or change owners.
         If your app connects to a Dataverse table, the permissions dropdown will display a
         More security roles option. Select the appropriate security roles, and those roles will
         be automatically assigned to users when you share the app.
         If your admin enabled app level security roles in Power Platform Admin, makers with
         the System Administrator security role can give collaborators app-level privileges
         when sharing. Makers assign privileges from the security role picker, with App
         reader, App user, App maker, or App admin as the security role options. To edit
         assigned security roles, unshare and reshare the app to assign the appropriate
         security role under Manage Access.
          App reader: This role gives read privilege for both user or team owned tables and
          org owned tables.
          App user: This role gives full access to only their own records in user or team
          owned tables, and read privilege to org owned tables.
          App maker: This role gives create and read privilege for all records in user or
          team owned tables, but only write, delete, assign, share, append, and append to
          privileges for their own records in user or team owned tables. Additionally, it
          gives read privilege to org owned tables.
          App admin: This role gives full access to all records in user or team owned tables
          and org owned tables.
      7. Optional steps:
         Select the overflow menu (...) at the top-right corner and then select Upload app
         image to include an image of the app in the email.
         Select Manage access to displays app access details, including current users and co-
         owners. You can also edit user access and assign security roles here. The Additional
         data access tab shows app connections to data sources like Dataverse tables or
         Excel files on OneDrive for Business. To manage security roles for data sources other
         than Dataverse, such as Excel files on OneDrive, ensure you share these data sources
         with the app users.
            8. Add an optional message and then select Share.
            ７ Note
                 To learn about sharing apps outside of your organization, see Share a canvas app
                 with guest users.
                 To learn about sharing limits applicable to canvas apps in managed environments,
                 see Sharing limits.
         Classic app sharing experience
         You can still use the classic app sharing experience by selecting the classic sharing option.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Apps.
            3. Select the app that you want to share.
            4. On the command bar, select Share. Or select the Commands menu next to your app
              name and then select Share
            5. Select the overflow menu (...) at the top-right corner and then select Use classic sharing.
      6. Specify the name or alias the users or security groups in Microsoft Entra ID with whom
       you want to share the app.
       You can share an app with a list of aliases, friendly names, or a combination of those (for
       example, Meghan Holmes <meghan.holmes@contoso.com>) if the items are separated
       by semicolons.
       If several people have the same name but different aliases, the first person found is added
       to the list. A tooltip appears if a name or alias already has permission or can't be resolved.
        ７ Note
        You can't share an app with a distribution group in your organization or with a group
        outside your organization.
        ） Important
        To avoid degraded experiences, use a security group when sharing the app with over
        100 users.
      7. If your app contains premium components, such as a map or address input, users must
       have a Power Apps license to use the app. To request licenses for the users of your app,
       select Request licenses, which submits the request to your admin.
        ７ Note
        You can't request licenses for security groups or distribution lists. For more
        information about requesting licenses, see Request Power Apps licenses for your
        app users.
      8. If you want to allow users to edit and share the app, select the Co-owner check box.
       In the sharing interface, you can't grant Co-owner permission to a security group if you
       created the app from within a solution. However, its possible to grant co-owner
       permission to a security group for apps in a solution by using the Set-
       PowerAppRoleAssignment cmdlet.
      9. If your app connects to data for which users need access permissions, specify security
       roles as appropriate.
       For example, your app might connect to a table in a Dataverse database. When you share
       such an app, the sharing panel prompts you to manage security for that table.
             For more information about managing security for a table, go to Manage table
             permissions.
             If your app uses connections to other data sources—such as an Excel file hosted on
             OneDrive for Business—ensure that you share these data sources with the users you
             shared the app with.
             For more information about sharing canvas app resources and connections, go to Share
             canvas app resources.
          10. If you want to help people find your app, select the Send an email invitation to new
             users check box.
          11. At the bottom of the share panel, select Share.
             Users can now run the app by using Power Apps Mobile on a mobile device or from
             AppSource on Microsoft 365    in a browser. Co-owners can edit and share the app in
             Power Apps .
             If you sent an email invitation, users can also run the app by selecting the link in the
             invitation email:
                  If a user selects the Open the app link on a mobile device, the app opens in Power
                  Apps Mobile.
                  If a user selects the Open the app link on a desktop computer, the app opens in a
                  browser.
                  If a user selects the Microsoft Teams link, the app opens in Microsoft Teams.
             If you selected Co-owner while sharing, the recipients will see a link for Power Apps
             Studio that will open the app for editing using Power Apps Studio.
     To change permissions for a user or a security group
        To allow co-owners to run the app but no longer edit or share it, clear the Co-owner
        check box.
        To stop sharing the app with that user or group, select the Remove (x) icon.
     Share apps using Teams
     You can share a link to your app in a Teams chat. The user that you share the app with needs to
     be on the same tenant and have access to the app that you're sharing.
      ７ Note
         To add canvas apps to Teams using the web player:
          Your organization must have Allow interaction with custom apps turned on.
          More information: Manage custom app policies and settings in Microsoft Teams
          Your organization must allow Shared Power Apps. More information: Manage
          Microsoft Power Platform apps in the Microsoft Teams admin center
         If you're the sender or receiver and get a This app cannot be found error when you
         select Add app to Teams, this means you don't have access to the app. To get
         access, contact your admin.
         If you're the sender and you don't have the Power Apps personal app installed in
         Teams, then a preview card will appear with a Show Preview button. To unfurl the full
         adaptive card, select Show Preview.
     To share the app, copy the app link from your web browser and paste it into the Teams chat.
     Before you send the link, you'll see a preview of your message.
     Legend:
       1. Link to app: Select the web link to open the app.
       2. Collapse preview: Select to close the preview. When you collapse the preview then the
        user that you send the link to will only get a web link to open the app. They won't see the
        buttons to add the App to Teams or Launch app in web.
       3. Name of app: Shows the name of the app.
       4. Add app to Teams: Select to add the app to Teams.
       5. Launch app in Web: Open the app directly in your browser.
     Request licenses for your users
     When sharing an app that requires a license for use, you can request Power Apps licenses for
     your users. For more information, see Request Power Apps licenses for your app users.
     Security group considerations
        All existing members of the security group inherit the app permissions. New users joining
        the security group will inherit the security group permissions on the app. Users leaving
        the group will no longer have access through that group, but those users can continue to
        have access either by having permissions assigned to them directly or through
        membership in another security group.
        Every member of a security group has the same permissions for an app as the overall
        group does. However, you can specify greater permissions for one or more members of
        that group to allow them greater access. For example, you can give Security Group A
        permission to run an app. And then, you can also give User B, who belongs to that group,
        Co-owner permission. Every member of the security group can run the app, but only User
        B can edit it. If you give Security Group A Co-owner permission and User B permission to
        run the app, that user can still edit the app.
        Users must explicitly be a member of the security group. If a user is an owner of the
        group, they must also assign themselves as a member of the group to inherit app
        permissions.
     Share an app with Microsoft 365 groups
     You can share an app with Microsoft 365 groups. However, the group must have security
     enabled. Enabling security ensures that the Microsoft 365 group can receive security tokens for
     authentication to access apps or resources.
     Using Microsoft Graph:
       1. Install the Microsoft Graph module.
          PowerShell
          Install-Module Microsoft.Graph -Scope CurrentUser
       2. Connect to Microsoft Graph. For information about the administrator roles required to
        manage groups, see Microsoft Entra roles for managing groups.
          PowerShell
          Connect-MgGraph -Scopes "Group.ReadWrite.All"
       3. Set the Object ID of Microsoft 365 group.
          PowerShell
          $ObjectID = "<ObjectID>"
       4. Enable security.
          PowerShell
          Update-MgGroup -GroupId $ObjectID -BodyParameter @{ SecurityEnabled = $true }
       5. Verify the update.
          PowerShell
          Get-MgGroup -GroupId $ObjectID | Select-Object DisplayName, SecurityEnabled
       ７ Note
       You must be the owner of the Microsoft 365 group to enable security. Setting the
       SecurityEnabled property to True doesn't affect how Power Apps and Microsoft 365
       features work. This command is required because the SecurityEnabled property is set to
       False by default when Microsoft 365 groups are created outside of Microsoft Entra ID.
     After a few minutes, you can discover this group in the Power Apps sharing panel and share
     apps with this group.
     Manage table permissions for Dataverse
     If you create an app based on Dataverse, you must also ensure that the users you share the
     app with have the appropriate permissions for the table or tables used by the app. Particularly,
     those users must belong to a security role that can do tasks such as creating, reading, writing,
     and deleting relevant records. In many cases, you'll want to create one or more custom security
     roles with the exact permissions that users need to run the app. You can then assign the role to
     each user as appropriate.
      ７ Note
         You can assign security roles to individual users and security groups in Microsoft
         Entra ID, but not to Microsoft 365 groups.
         If a user isn't in the Dataverse root business unit, you can share the app without
         providing a security role, and then set the security role directly.
         After a security role is assigned to a user or group, you can't unassigned it when you
         share an app. However, you can still unassign security roles through the admin
         portal.
     Prerequisite
     To assign a role, you must have System Administrator permissions for a Dataverse database.
     To assign a security group in Microsoft Entra to a role
       1. In the sharing panel under Data permissions, select Assign a security role.
       2. Select the Dataverse roles that you want to apply to the selected Microsoft Entra users or
        groups.
      ７ Note
      When you share an app that's based on an older version of Dataverse, you must share the
      runtime permission to the service separately. If you don’t have permission to do this, see
      your environment administrator.
     Next steps
     Share a canvas app with guest users
     See also
     Edit an app
     Restore an app to a previous version
     Export and import an app
     Delete an app
     Share a canvas app with guest users
     06/27/2025
     Canvas apps can be shared with guest users of a Microsoft Entra tenant. You can invite external
     business partners, contractors, and third parties to run your company's canvas apps.
     Watch this video to learn how to share an app with guests:
     https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=84cd1908-2ca9-415b-a819-
     3ffb61e55eca&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
     apps%2Fshare-app-guests
     Prerequisites
        In Microsoft Entra ID, enable B2B external collaboration for the tenant. More information:
        Configure external collaboration settings for B2B in Microsoft Entra External ID
          ７ Note
          B2B external collaboration is enabled by default. However, you need to verify that
          the settings weren't changed by a tenant admin. For more information about
          Microsoft Entra B2B, see Overview: B2B collaboration with external guests for your
          workforce.
        Access to an account that can add guest users to a Microsoft Entra tenant. Admins and
        users with the Guest Inviter role can add guests to a tenant.
        To access an app that connects to Dataverse, the guest user must have a license with
        Power Apps use rights that matches the capability of the app. The exception to this
        prerequisite is when an app is hosted in a Microsoft Dataverse for Teams environment.
       ７ Note
       Ensure that you perform these steps on the resource tenant, and not on the home tenant.
          A resource tenant is where the app is expected to exist, and where the user is
          expected to create the app using Power Apps as a guest.
          A home tenant is where the user's account resides and authenticates against.
     Steps to grant guest access
       1. In Microsoft Entra ID, select New guest user. More information: Quickstart: Add a guest
        user and send an invitation
       2. If the guest user doesn't already have a license in their home tenant, assign a license to
        the guest user.
           To assign guest users from admin.microsoft.com, go to Add users and assign
           licenses at the same time.
           To assign guest users from portal.azure.com, go to Assign or remove licenses.
         ） Important
         You might need to disable the Microsoft 365 admin center preview to assign a
         license to a guest.
       3. [Share an app from Power Apps](Share an app from Power Apps)
     Considerations and limitations for guest access
        Users accessing web experiences in different Microsoft Entra tenants must access Power
        Apps in a standalone browser session (different browser or InPrivate browser session).
        The standalone browser session insures that Power Apps picks up the correct Azure B2B
        user identity for the app being accessed.
        Power Apps guest access uses Azure B2B.
        Power Apps Mobile doesn't support authentication using Microsoft Entra direct
        federation. More information: Sign in using Power Apps Mobile
        Power Apps per app plans are scoped to apps in a specific environment, so they can't be
        recognized across tenants.
        Power Apps included with Office and Power Apps per user plans have the following
        characteristics:
          In the Azure public cloud, they're recognized across tenants in guest scenarios because
          they aren't bound to a specific environment.
          In Azure national or sovereign clouds, they're recognized across tenants in guest
          scenarios. For more information, see National clouds, Azure geographies
          Licenses aren't recognized across tenants in difference Azure clouds.
          Not all connectors create connections in the resource tenant by default.
          A user that signs in to an app using Azure B2B, doesn't see their identity information in
          My account.
      Frequently asked questions
      What's the difference between canvas app guest access and
      Power Pages?
      With canvas apps, you can build an app tailored to digitizing business processes, without
      writing code in a traditional programming language such as C#. Guest access for canvas apps
      enables teams of individuals made up of different organizations participating in a common
      business process to access the same app resources that might be integrated with a wide variety
      of Microsoft and partner sources. More information: Overview of canvas-app connectors for
      Power Apps
      Power Pages provide you with the ability to build low-code, responsive websites that allow
      external users to interact with the data stored in Dataverse. With Power Pages, organizations
          can create websites and share them with users external to their organization either
          anonymously or through the sign-in provider of their choice, such as LinkedIn, Microsoft, or
          other commercial sign-in provider.
          The following table outlines a few core capability differences between Power Pages and canvas
          apps.
                                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
           Guest        Interface         Authentication                Accessible data sources
           access in
           Power        Browser-only      Allows anonymous and          Dataverse
           Pages        experience        authenticated access
           Canvas       Browser and       Requires authentication via   Any of approximately 150 out-of-the-box
           apps         mobile apps       Microsoft Entra ID            connectors and any custom connector
          Can guests access customized forms in SharePoint?
          See What license must be assigned to my guest so they can run an app shared with them?
          Why is a guest who accesses a customized form in SharePoint
          prompted for a trial?
          If the custom form uses a premium connector, a guest must have a Power Apps license to
          access the custom form. If the custom form only uses standard connectors, your tenant must
          allow Microsoft Power Platform internal consent plans to be assigned to users. For more details
          about Power Platform internal consent plans, read block trial license commands.
          Can guests access apps embedded in SharePoint?
          Yes. However, access to canvas standalone apps requires a user license with Power Apps user
          rights that matches the capability of the app, including embedded apps. When embedding a
          canvas app in SharePoint with the Power Apps embed control, enter the app ID in the App web
          link or ID box.
         When embedding a canvas app in SharePoint via the iFrame HTML tag, reference the app by
         using the full web URL. To find the URL, sign in to Power Apps   , select an app, and then select
         the Details tab. The URL is displayed under Web link.
         How is it that guests can open the app shared with them, but
         no data connections are created?
         As is the case with nonguests, the underlying data sources accessed by the app must also be
         made accessible to the guest.
         What license must be assigned to my guest so they can run an
         app shared with them?
         The following table explains whether the guests can run (use) customized Microsoft Lists or
         SharePoint library forms, canvas apps, and model-driven apps using the referenced license.
                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
            Plan           Customized             Customized          Canvas app         Canvas app       Model-
                           Microsoft Lists or     Microsoft Lists     (using             (using           driven
                           SharePoint library     or SharePoint       nonpremium         premium          app
                           form (using            library (using      connectors)        connectors)
                           nonpremium             premium
                           connectors)            connectors)
            No license     ✓                      ✗                   ✗                  ✗                ✗
            SharePoint     ✓                      ✗                   ✗                  ✗                ✗
            user (without
            Power Apps
            license)
            Power Apps     ✓                      ✗                   ✓                  ✗                ✗
            included with
            Office
            Power Apps     ✓                      ✓                   ✓                  ✓                ✓
            per app plan
            Power Apps     ✓                      ✓                   ✓                  ✓                ✓
            per user plan
          For more information about pricing and the capabilities of various plans, go to Microsoft Power
          Apps and Power Automate Licensing Guide            .
          In Power Apps Mobile, how does a guest see apps for their
          home tenant?
          When users access a canvas app through a mobile device and the app is published in a non-
          home Microsoft Entra tenant, they can switch to a different directory.
          In Power Apps Mobile, how does a guest see apps in the
          guest tenant?
          The guest user opens the email they received when an app in the guest tenant is shared and
          selects Open the app. This view applies to both Microsoft Entra and Microsoft account users.
          You can also create a deep link. For more information, see Use deep links with Power Apps
          mobile.
    Must a guest accept the Microsoft Entra guest invitation
    before an app can be shared with them?
    No. If a guest opens an app shared with them before they accept a guest invitation, the guest
    is prompted to accept the invitation as part of the sign-in experience while opening the app.
    In which Microsoft Entra tenant are connections created for a
    guest user?
    Connections for an app are always made in the context of the Microsoft Entra tenant the app is
    associated with. For example, if an app is created in the Contoso tenant, the connections made
    for Contoso internal and guest users are made in the context of the Contoso tenant.
    Can guests use Microsoft Graph with Power Apps?
    By default, Azure B2B users have limited permission to access information from Microsoft
    Graph. A user’s permission in Microsoft Graph determines what's returned when using
    connectors such as Microsoft Security Graph, Office 365 Users, Office 365 Groups, and custom
    connectors using Microsoft Graph APIs. For more information about Microsoft Graph
    permissions, see Default user permissions and Working with users in Microsoft Graph.
    Which Intune policies apply to guests who are using my apps?
    Intune only applies the policies of a user's home tenant. For instance, if Lesa@Contoso.com
    shares an app with Wanda@Fabrikam.com, Intune continues to apply Fabrikam.com policies on
    Wanda's device, regardless of the apps Wanda runs.
    Can I disable cross tenant license recognition?
    No. Authorization capabilities can and should be used to control which users access a resource.
    For instance, Dataverse environments can be bound to a security group that excludes Azure
    B2B guest users.
    Why can an Azure B2B user without a license access a model
    driven app?
    The detection of a previously licensed user no longer having a license isn't immediate. If you
    expect a user to lose access to an app using Dataverse, then their authorization to the app or
          data should be updated. For example, the app should be unshared with the user or Dataverse
          security roles should be removed from the user.
          Which connectors create connections in the resource tenant
          by default?
          Users relying on Azure B2B to access an app only has implications on connectors that use
          Microsoft Entra ID for authentication. Some Microsoft Entra ID based connectors default to
          creating a connection in the resource tenant, while others default to creating a connection in
          the home tenant. Connectors that don't use any type of Microsoft Entra ID authentication work
          the same for guests and members in a tenant. The following table enumerates all connectors
          that do use Microsoft Entra ID authentication and default creates connections in the resource
          tenant. For more information on each connector as there might be restriction, see List of all
          Power Apps connectors
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
           Connector                            Creates connection in resource tenant by default
           Microsoft Entra                      Yes
           Azure Automation                     Yes
           Azure Container Instance             Yes
           Azure Data Factory                   Yes
           Azure Data Lake                      Yes
           Azure IoT Central                    Yes
           Azure Kusto                          Yes
           Azure Log Analytics                  Yes
           Azure Resource Manager               Yes
           Microsoft Dataverse                  Yes*
           Dynamics 365 AI for Sales            Yes
           Microsoft Teams                      Yes
           Office 365 Groups                    Yes
           Office 365 Users                     Yes
           Outlook Tasks                        Yes
       Connector             Creates connection in resource tenant by default
       Power BI              Yes
       SharePoint            Yes
      * When using the Microsoft Dataverse as the data source, ensure that the guest user is licensed
      from the same tenant where you have Dataverse data located.
      See also
      Edit an app
      Restore an app to a previous version
      Export and import an app
      Delete an app
       Share Excel data used by your app
       Article • 12/16/2022
       You can share Excel data with your app users in a cloud account, such as OneDrive.
       For example, you might create an app that shows the names and phone numbers of the
       technical-support group at your company. The information is stored in an Excel
       spreadsheet, which you put in a folder in Dropbox. You then share the folder with your
       app users so that they can see the names and phone numbers.
       You must share the data so that users can run and even modify your app. Users who
       aren't given the sharing permissions won't see the data in the Excel file.
       This topic shows you how to share data in an Excel spreadsheet using Dropbox,
       OneDrive, and Google Drive. To create an app that displays data from an Excel file, see
       Create an app from a set of data.
       Share data in Dropbox
        1. Sign in to Dropbox using the same account that you used to create a connection
         from Power Apps to Dropbox.
        2. Select the folder that contains the Excel file, and then select Share:
        3. In the dialog box, enter the email addresses with which your app users sign in to
         Dropbox.
        4. If your app users will add, modify, or delete data in your app, select Can edit.
         Otherwise, select Can view.
        5. Select Share.
            For more information, see Sharing folders on Dropbox  .
            Share data in OneDrive
               1. Sign in to OneDrive using the same account that you used when you created a
                 connection from Power Apps to OneDrive.
               2. Select the folder that contains the file, and then select Share:
                    ７ Note
                    In OneDrive for Business, share the file itself, not the folder that contains the
                    file.
               3. In the dialog box, select Email.
               4. Specify the email addresses with which your app users sign in to OneDrive, and
                 then select Share.
             For more information, see Share OneDrive files and folders  .
             Share data in Google Drive
                1. Sign in to Google Drive using the same account with which you created a
                  connection from Power Apps to Google Drive.
                2. Right-click the folder that stores your Excel file, and then select Share.
                3. In the dialog box, enter the email addresses with which your app users sign in to
                  Google Drive:
                4. If your app users will add, modify, or delete data in your app, then select Can edit
                  in the list of permissions. Otherwise, select Can view.
                5. Select Done.
             For more information, see Share Google Drive files and folders  .
             Known limitations
             For information about how to share Excel data within your organization, review these
             limitations.
     Share resources used by canvas apps
     07/08/2025
     Before you share a canvas app, consider the types of resources on which it relies, such as one
     or more of the following:
        Tables in Microsoft Dataverse.
        For information about giving users access to this data, see Manage table permissions.
        A connection to a data source.
        An on-premises data gateway.
        A custom connector.
        An Excel workbook or other service.
        A flow.
     Some of these resources are shared automatically when you share the app. Other resources
     require you or the people with whom you share the app to take extra steps so that the app
     works as you expect.
     You can also share your connections, custom connectors and on-premises data gateway with
     your entire organization.
     Connections
     Some connections (such as SQL Server with SQL or Windows authentication) are implicitly
     shared with the app when you share the app with other users. Other connections require users
     to create their own connections and explictly grant security privileges (such as security roles for
     the Dataverse, OneDrive for Business, SQL Server with Microsoft Entra authentication).
     You can determine whether a connection is automatically shared as part of the app when you
     share the app with other users; allowing you to update sharing permissions. To do this, go to
     make.powerapps.com and select Data -> Connections from left navigation. Then select the
     required connection. If the Share button appears on top navigation or if the Share option
     displays when you select More Commands (...), the selected connection can be shared with
     other users.
    Implicit sharing
    When you share an app that uses a connection that can be shared, the app connection is
    implicitly shared along with the app. For example, following message appears when you go to
    make.powerapps.com, select Apps, choose an app that uses such connection, select More
    Commands (...) and then select Share:
    If you select Confirm and share the chosen app with other users, the app connection is
    implicitly shared with those users along with the app.
      ７ Note
      To ensure the app works properly, the user who is sharing the app needs to have sharing
      permission for all connections used by the app. Without these permissions, the user won't
      be able to access or use the connections correctly. This applies to all app-sharing
      activities, including app sharing, app publishing, and solution import.
     On-premises data gateways
     If you create and share an app that includes data from an on-premises source, the on-premises
     data gateway itself and certain types of connections to that gateway will be shared
     automatically. For any connection that isn’t shared automatically, you can share it manually (as
     the previous section shows) or let the app prompt users to create their own connections. To
     show the connection or connections with which a gateway has been configured:
      1. Open powerapps.com , click or tap Manage in the left navigation bar, and then click or
       tap Gateways.
      2. Click or tap a gateway, and then click or tap the Connections tab.
      ７ Note
      If you share one or more connections manually, you might need to reshare them under
      these circumstances:
       You add an on-premises data gateway to an app that you’ve already shared.
       You change the set of people or groups with whom you’ve shared an app that has an on-
       premises data gateway.
     Custom connectors
     When you share an app that uses a custom connector, it is automatically shared, but users
     must create their own connections to it.
     On powerapps.com , you can view or update permissions for a custom connector. In the left
     navigation bar, click or tap Manage, click or tap Connections, and then click or tap New
     connection (in the upper-right corner). Click or tap Custom, and then click or tap a custom
     connector to display details about it.
     Excel workbooks
     If a shared app uses data to which not all users have access (such as an Excel workbook in a
     cloud-storage account), share the data.
     Flows
     If you share an app that includes a flow, users who run the app will be prompted to confirm or
     update any connections on which the flow relies. In addition, only the person who created the
     flow can customize its parameters. For example, you can create a flow that sends mail to an
     address that you specify, but other users can’t change that address.
         Tutorial: Embed a Power Apps visual in a
         Power BI report
         APPLIES TO:       Power BI Desktop       Power BI service
         In this tutorial, you use the Power Apps visual to create a new app that is embedded in a
         sample Power BI report. This app interacts with other visuals in that report.
         If you don't have a Power Apps subscription, create a free account    before you begin.
         In this tutorial, you learn how to:
          ＂Add a Power Apps visual to a Power BI report
          ＂Work in Power Apps to create a new app that uses data from the Power BI report
          ＂View and interact with the Power Apps visual in the report
         Prerequisites
               Google Chrome  or Microsoft Edge  browser
               A Power BI subscription, with the Opportunity Analysis Sample installed
               An understanding of how to create apps in Power Apps and how to edit Power BI reports
         Create a new app
         When you add the Power Apps visual to your report, it launches Power Apps Studio with a live
         data connection between Power Apps and Power BI.
            1. Open the Opportunity Analysis sample report and select the Upcoming Opportunities
               page.
            2. Open the report in Editing mode by selecting Edit from the Options bar.
            3. Move and resize some of the report tiles to make space for the new visual.
      4. From the Visualizations pane, select the Power Apps icon, then resize the visual to fit the
       space you made.
      5. In the Fields pane, select Opportunity > Name, Product > Product Code, and SalesStage
       > Sales Stage.
      6. On the Power Apps visual, select the Power Apps environment where you want to create
       the app, then select Create new.
       In Power Apps Studio, you see that a basic app is created, with a gallery that shows one of
       the fields you selected in Power BI.
      7. In the left pane, select Screen1, then set the screen's Fill property to "LightBlue" (so it
       shows up better in the report).
       8. Select Gallery1 and make some room for a label control by changing Properties > Size >
        Height to 964.
         ７ Note
         If you can't edit the Height field, try adjusting the size of the visual on the canvas
         first. Select the visual and drag one of the handles. Now edit the Height field.
       9. Expand the left navigation menu, choose + Insert, and select Classic > Text label from the
        list of controls.
      10. Drag the label to the bottom of your visual. Set the Text property to "Opportunity Count:
        " & CountRows(Gallery1.AllItems). The visual on the canvas now shows a total of 487
        opportunities in the dataset.
