      Import and use a canvas component in a custom page
      Custom pages can use the components from the canvas component library created or
      imported in the current environment. You can select Get more components at the
      bottom of the add control left navigation area.
      The canvas component is available under the Library components section and can be
      added to the custom page.
        Component updates to the custom page
        When the component is added to the custom page via the component library, it
        maintains the reference to the library. When the library owner publishes the newer
        library version with updated components, the custom page inline with the canvas app
        displays an update available message. This message is displayed when the custom page
        is opened for editing.
      Select Review to review the updates, and then select ok to get the component refreshed
      with the latest changes from the canvas library.
       ７ Note
       Individual custom pages present in a model-driven app should be opened
       individually for editing inside canvas app studio to get the latest updates from the
       shared component library.
             You can now publish the custom page and model-driven app to get the latest changes
             reflected.
             Additional canvas component resources
             You can evaluate and use canvas component samples from Microsoft and other Power
             Apps community developers, which are hosted on the Canvas app components
             gallery   .
      See also
      Model-driven app custom page overview
      Add a custom page to your model-driven app
      Using PowerFx in custom page
      Overview of Power Apps connectors
      Add data connection in canvas designer
       Add code components to a custom
       page for your model-driven app
       Article • 06/03/2022
       This article outlines the use of code components built by professional developers using
       Power Apps component framework within a custom page. For low-code custom UX
       extensibility, see add canvas components to a custom page for your model-driven app.
        ） Important
           Custom pages are a new feature with significant product changes and
           currently have a number of known limitations outlined in Custom Page
           Known Issues.
        ７ Note
           Custom pages support all the component framework APIs that are currently
           supported for canvas apps.
           Certain model-driven app specific APIs like WebAPI and Navigation have
           published app support for custom pages. These APIs can be used in the code
           component for custom pages and works on the final published app.
           For individual API support status on each platform, see Power Apps
           component framework API reference
       Code components provide professional developers the ability to create custom code
       components for use within an app. This pro-code extensibility mechanism provides first-
       class application lifecycle management (ALM) to seamlessly extend the components
       available to all the app makers across the organization. Code components can be reused
       across custom pages, canvas, and model-driven apps. They can be centrally updated,
       packaged, and moved using standard Microsoft Dataverse solutions. More information:
       Power Apps component framework overview
       Enabling Power Apps component framework
       for custom pages
       To use code components inside a custom page, you need to enable Power Apps
       component framework feature. More information: Enable the Power Apps component
       framework feature
                                                 
       Create code components for use in a custom
       page
       This section outlines how to create, import, and test code components.
       Creating and importing code components in Dataverse
       Code components for custom pages follow the same pattern as they do with canvas
       app. Code components need to be implemented first before they can be added to a
       custom page. To create a code component, see Create your first component.
       You can also try OOB sample components to jump-start. Once you are done
       implementing your code component, it can be packaged into a solution and added to
       Dataverse, making it available for use in all the custom pages in line with model-driven
       and canvas apps. More information: Code components application lifecycle
       management (ALM).
       Importing and using code component in a custom page
       In an environment, custom pages can use all the code components previously imported
       into Dataverse using solutions. On the left pane, select Add (+), and then select Get
       more components at the bottom of the page. You will see a code tab on the Import
       components pane showing all code components present in the environment.
                                           
       ７ Note
         If the code tab doesn't show up in the Import component pane, verify that
         the Power Apps component framework feature setting for canvas apps is
         enabled. More information: Enable Power Apps component framework
         feature
         Also, ensure that you are working on the latest canvas app studio authoring
         version.
      The newly added code components are now available under the Code components
      section. It can be added to a custom page.
                                           
        Testing the code component inside the studio and
        published app
        Like canvas apps, code components are interactive and can be tested in the custom
        page studio authoring environment. However, specific APIs like Web APIs and
        Navigation, which only have the custom page runtime support when invoked, will show
        the error message "Method not implemented".
                                                            
        You can dismiss this error and publish the custom page. Then, add this custom page to
        the model-driven app and publish the app to see the custom page web API in action.
        The image below shows the standard Web API sample control and Navigation API
        control added to custom page working inside a published model-driven app.
        Additional code component resources
        You can also use other sample components from Microsoft.
      Or try some from the Power Apps community gallery.
      See also
      Model-driven app custom page overview
      Add a custom page to your model-driven app
      Using PowerFx in custom page
      Overview of Power Apps connectors
      Add data connection in canvas designer
     Overview of connectors for canvas apps
     Data is at the core of most apps, including apps you build in Power Apps. You store data in a
     data source, and you bring that data into your app by creating a connection. The connection
     uses a specific connector to talk to the data source. Power Apps has connectors for many
     popular services and on-premises data sources, including SharePoint, SQL Server, Office 365,
     Salesforce, and Twitter. To get started adding data to a canvas app, see Add a data connection
     in Power Apps.
     A connector might provide tables of data or actions. Some connectors provide only tables,
     some provide only actions, and some provide both. Also your connector might be either a
     standard or custom connector.
      ７ Note
      Keep the number of connectors in a canvas app to a maximum of 10, and connection
      references to no more than 20. Going beyond these limits can lead to longer loading
      times for users when launching the app and can cause problems when saving the app.
     Tables
     If your connector provides tables, add your data source, and then select the table in the data
     source that you want to manage. Power Apps retrieves table data into your app and updates
     data in your data source automatically. For example, add a data source that has a table named
     Lessons, and then set the Items property of a control, such as a gallery or a form, to this value
     in the formula bar:
     Specify the data that your app retrieves by customizing the Items property of the control that
     shows your data. Continuing the previous example, sort or filter the data in the Lessons table
     by using that name as an argument for the Search and SortByColumn functions. In this
     graphic, the formula set for the Items property specifies that the data is sorted and filtered
     based on the text in TextSearchBox1.
     For more information about customizing your formula with tables, see these articles:
     Understand data sources in Power Apps
     Generate an app from Excel data
     Create an app from scratch
     Understand tables and records in Power Apps
      ７ Note
      To connect to data in an Excel workbook, host it in a cloud storage service like OneDrive.
      For more information, see Connect to cloud-storage from Power Apps.
     Actions
     If your connector provides actions, select your data source as you did before. Instead of
     selecting a table as the next step, manually connect a control to an action by editing the Items
     property of the control that shows your data. The formula you set for the Items property
     specifies the action that retrieves data. For example, the app doesn't retrieve any data if you
     connect to Yammer and then set the Items property to the name of the data source. To
     populate a control with data, specify an action such as
     GetMessagesInGroup(5033622).messages.
     To handle custom data updates for action connectors, build a formula that includes the Patch
     function. In the formula, identify the action and the fields that bind to the action.
      ７ Note
      For action-based connectors, galleries and other controls don't automatically page in
      more data like they do for tabular connectors. For example, if you bind a tabular data
      source to a gallery, it retrieves the first set or page of records (for example, 100 records),
      and then it pages in more data as the control requests it. For an action-based connector, it
      retrieves a "page" of data, but if the data requested exceeds the page size, the control
      doesn't automatically get the next page.
     For more information about how to customize your formula for custom updates, see these
     articles:
     Patch
     Collect
     Update
       Dynamic schema is a common type of result for action based connectors. Dynamic schema
       refers to the possibility that the same action might return a table with different columns
       depending on how it's called. Conditions that might cause the columns in the table to differ
       include input parameters, the user or role executing the action, and the group in which the
       user is working, among others. For example, SQL Server stored procedures might return
       different columns if run with different inputs, or an Azure DevOps instance might use custom
       fields that aren't available by default.
         ７ Note
         The connector documentation shows dynamic schema results with this message "The
         outputs of this operation are dynamic." as the return value.
       For more information about how to work with dynamic schema in Power Apps, see Working
       with Dynamic values for an overview and Connect to Azure DevOps from Power Apps for a
       detailed example.
       Popular connectors
       This table links to more information about popular connectors. For a complete list, see All
       connectors.
                                                                  ﾉ
                                                                     Expand table
                                              
        Microsoft Dataverse                  Cloud storage **
        Dynamics AX                          Excel
        Microsoft Translator                 Office 365 Outlook
        Office 365 Users                     Oracle
        Power BI                             SharePoint
        SQL Server                           Twitter
       ** Applies to Azure Blob, Box, Dropbox, Google Drive, and OneDrive.
       Standard and custom connectors
         Power Apps provides standard connectors for many commonly used data sources. If Power
         Apps has a standard connector for the type of data source you want to use, use that connector.
         To connect to other types of data sources, like a service you built, see Register and use custom
         connectors.
         All standard connectors
         Standard connectors don't require special licensing. For more information, see Power Apps
         plans  .
         Ask questions about a specific connector in the Power Apps forums  , and suggest connectors
         you want to add or other improvements in Power Apps Ideas    .
         Security and types of authentication
         As you author your app and create a connection to a data source, you might see that your
         choice of connector offers different ways to authenticate. For instance, the SQL Server
         connector allows you to use Microsoft Entra Integrated, SQL Server Authentication, and
         Windows Authentication. Each type of authentication has different levels of security.
         Understand what information and rights you share with users who use your application. The
         primary example in this article is SQL Server. However, the principles apply to all types of
         connections.
           ７ Note
                For detailed information about security considerations when using a relational
                database server, such as Microsoft SQL Server or Oracle, as the data source for an
                app, see Use Microsoft SQL Server securely with Power Apps.
                Power Apps doesn't support External member identities. For more information, see
                Properties of a Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration user.
                Gateway selection isn't supported for custom connectors that use the anonymous
                authentication type.
         Microsoft Entra ID
         This authentication is a secure type of connection. For example, SharePoint uses this type of
         authentication. SQL Server also allows for this type of authentication. When you connect, the
         Microsoft Entra service identifies you separately to SharePoint on your behalf. You don't have
         to supply a username or password. As an author, you can create and work with the data source
    by using your credentials. When you publish your application, your application user signs in by
    using their credentials. If the data is appropriately secured on a back-end, your users can only
    see what they're authorized to see based on their credentials. This type of security allows you
    to change rights for specific application users on the back-end data source after the
    application is published. For instance you can grant access, deny access, or refine what a user
    or set of users can see all on the back-end data source.
    Open-standard authorization (OAuth)
    This type of connection is also secure. For example, Twitter uses this type of authentication.
    When you connect, you must supply your user name and password. As an author, you can
    create and work with the data source by using your credentials. When you publish your
    application and your application user signs in, they must also supply their credentials.
    Therefore this type of connection is secure as your users must use their own credentials to
    access the data source service.
    Shared connections and secure implicit connections
    In a shared connection, the Power Apps author provides the user name and password for the
    connection when creating the data source in the application. The connection authentication to
    the data source is then implicitly shared with end users. Once the application is published, the
    connection is also published and available to your users.
    Before January 2024, your end users could take the connection that you shared with them and
    create separate new applications. Your users can't see the user name or password, but the
    connection is available to them. However, after January 2024, all newly created shared
    connections are secured. To secure existing apps, republish them. The connection is no longer
    shared with end users. The published Power App talks to a connection proxy. The connection
    proxy only talks to the specific Power App for which it's linked. The connection proxy limits the
    actions that are sent to the connections to the ones in the Power App {Get, Put/Patch, Delete}
    for a given data source. If you have an app using the connections published before January
    2024, republish your application and unshare any connections with end users that shouldn't
    have them.
    In SQL Server, an example of this type of connection is SQL Server Authentication. Many other
    database data sources provide a similar capability. When you publish your application, your
    users don't need to supply a unique user name and password.
     ７ Note
     Your end-users might encounter the error message You do not have correct permissions
     to use this connection in the consent dialog. Two situations might cause this error. First,
     the application might have a shared implicit connection that isn't a secure implicit
     connection. Sharing the connection with the end user resolves this issue but isn't
     recommended because all shared connections should be secure implicit connections. The
     author should convert all connections in the application to be secure implicit connections
     to resolve this issue. Second, the connection might already be a secure implicit
     connection. Republishing might resolve this issue. If it doesn't, then a product bug should
     be filed.
    Notification to update your apps (secure implicit connections)
    If you have applications that might be upgraded to use this feature, you see a message on the
    Apps page. It indicates the number of apps that need your attention.
    Select the link and it opens a side panel that lists all of the apps that need attention.
    Select the open icon to the right of the app name to open and republish it. Continue with the
    following directions.
    Enable secure implicit connections for an existing app
    Open an existing app open for editing with implicitly shared connections already published:
      1. On the command bar, select Settings and search for "Secure".
      2. Update the feature switch appropriately to enable secure implicit connections.
      3. Save and publish the app.
    Unsharing
    Once you publish the app, follow these steps to verify that sharing works correctly:
       Check if connections are shared with co-owners. If you don't want an end-user to get a
       connection, then uncheck the Co-owner checkbox.
       To verify the feature works correctly, share the app with a different user who isn't an
       owner. Once you share the app, check the Connections list in the Dataverse tab in Power
       Apps  for that user. Verify that the user doesn't have a connection available.
       Open the Sharing panel to change the end-user's right to the connection. Choose the X
       to remove the user's access to the connection.
    Use apps with a new secure implicit connection
    When you republish and share your app, end-users don't have access to the connection but
    work with the hidden proxy connection. Users can't create a new app based on your original
    connection.
      Limitations
       1. All types of implicitly shared connections work, such as action and tabular.
       2. Server and database names are hidden in network traces but visible in the consent dialog.
         Column names aren't hidden.
       3. For tabular connectors, the feature only limits CRUD actions such as Get, Post, Put, or
         Delete. If you have permissions to Put, then you have access to Post.
       4. Action based connectors limit based on the specific API being used in the application.
       5. Warnings are still enabled in sharing. The warning around implicitly shared connections
         still warns while in preview. However, your connection with this feature is secure – despite
         the warning.
       6. Publishing to an entire tenant, as opposed to specific groups or individuals isn't
         supported.
       7. There's a known issue when importing an implicitly shared secure connection via a
         connection reference. The security isn't set properly in the target environment.
       8. There's a known issue importing a solution using a service principal, causing import
         failure. A workaround is to share the connection with the service principal.
      Windows Authentication
      This type of connection isn't secure because it doesn't rely on end-user authentication. Use
      Windows authentication when you need to connect to a data source that is on-premises. An
      example of this type of connection is to an on-premises server that has a SQL Server. The
      connection must go through a gateway. Since it goes through a gateway, the connector has
      access to all of the data on that data source. As a result, any information that you can access
      with the Windows credentials you supply is available to the connector. When you publish the
      application, you also publish the connection and make it available to your users. This behavior
      means that your end users can create applications by using this same connection and access
      the data on that machine. Connections to the data source are also Implicitly Shared with users
      that the app is shared with. This type of connection might be valid when your data source only
      lives on an on-premises server and the data on that source is freely shareable.
      Data sources in solutions
      Solutions help with application lifecycle management and offer other ways to manage the
      lifecycle of data sources. If a canvas app is in a solution, you can create connection references
      and environment variables to store information about the data sources. This setup makes it
      easy to change or reconnect data sources when you move solutions to different environments.
      Rename data sources in apps
     Learn how to rename data sources in an app, and understand the difference between tabular
     and action-based data sources. For more information, see Rename Power Apps action-based
     data sources.
     Connection consent dialog
     When users open an app that uses connectors for the first time, they see a connection consent
     dialog for the following purposes.
      1. To inform users about the data sources accessed by the app.
      2. To outline the actions a connector might or might not perform in an app. For example, for
        apps using the Office 365 Users connector:
        This app is able to:
         Read your full user profile
         Read the full profile of all users
        The app can't:
         Modify or delete any user-profile information
      1. To capture end-user consent to connect to the data sources that the app uses.
      2. To facilitate manual end-user authentication, when needed.
     For some connections, Power Platform can automatically authenticate a user to access a data
     source. However, if the automatic sign-in fails, this dialog prompts users to fix a connection by
     manually signing in. Power Platform can only attempt automatic sign-in for a connection when
     a data source preauthorizes Microsoft’s Azure API connections service principal, granting it
     permission to perform single sign-on for a user when a connection is created. For more
     information on single sign-on, see What is single sign-on (SSO)?
     For model-driven apps that use custom pages, when there are multiple custom pages in an
     app, the consent dialog asks for data permissions for all of the connectors in all the custom
     pages even if users don't open them.
     The following image is an example of the connection consent dialog for an app connecting to
     a SharePoint site.
       For select connectors, admins can suppress this dialog and consent on behalf of end users to
       connect to a data source. The following table explains which types of connectors the consent
       dialog might be suppressed for an app.
         ７ Note
         If an admin suppresses the consent dialog but the platform can’t perform single sign-on
         for an end-user, the dialog is presented to the user when they launch the app.
                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
            Connector type                                                       Consent dialog       Reference
                                                                                 suppressible?
            Microsoft connectors that support single sign-on (such as            Yes                  Power Apps
            SharePoint, Office 365 users)                                                             admin cmdlet
            Connector accessing a non-Microsoft, partner service, such as        No                   Not applicable
            Salesforce
            Custom connectors using OAuth with Microsoft Entra ID as the         Yes                  Manage
            identity provider. These custom connectors are built by                                   Connections
            organizations, and are only accessible by the users within the
            organization (for example, built by Contoso for only Contoso
            users)
          Microsoft Power Platform can only suppress the consent dialog for connections to data sources
          where all the following conditions are true:
              1. The data source doesn't require an explicit consent UI.
              2. The data source preauthorizes Microsoft’s Azure API connections service principal to
                enable single sign-on.
              3. An admin configures an app to suppress the consent for the preceding connections.
          Microsoft’s Azure API connections service principal preauthorization exists for Microsoft's first-
          party data sources. Custom applications registered in a Microsoft Entra tenant that are used by
          custom connectors might configure this preauthorization. An admin manages consent
          suppression on a per-app basis (as opposed to connector basis), so suppression is managed at
          the most granular app experience level. This level of granularity prevents consent suppression
          for an organization’s "approved apps" from inadvertently suppressing consent for apps that
          aren't approved or reviewed.
            Last updated on 01/13/2026
       Localize labels, messages, and tooltips
       on a custom page
       Article • 03/13/2023
       [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
       This article outlines how to add localized content to a custom page by uploading web
       resource RESX files for each language into your solution.
       This article shows you how to use Power Fx to set the content of a control on a custom
       page. You can use similar steps for tooltips and any messages that use a text control on
       the custom page.
       Localizing labels on a custom page
       Providing localized content on a custom page in a model-driven app is vital when
       building apps that support global users or a multilingual organization. Translation can
       be done by uploading text files in a .resx format as a web resource. The files contain the
       translated text that you want to use for labels on your custom pages.
       The process has the following steps:
         1. Enable languages for your environment.
         2. Add localized RESX web resource files into your solution.
         3. Add the localized files to your custom page.
         4. Manage localized web resources.
         5. Add the localized strings to your controls.
         6. Run your app with localized content.
       Enable languages for your environment
       To add languages for a custom page, you need to first enable the languages you want
       to support in the model-driven app where your custom page will run. Make sure you
       have enabled languages from the Power Platform admin center. More information:
       Enable the language
       After completing the steps to enable languages in the environment, create a RESX file
       for each language in the proper format for the strings you want localized on your
       custom page for your model-driven app.
           After you have the created the RESX files with the localized strings, add them into your
           solution as a web resource. There are two ways to accomplish this task, the first is to
           open your solution in make.powerapps.com and select the option to add a web
           resource to your solution in your environment or you can add a web resource while
           working on a custom page. More information: RESX web resources
           Adding a web resource while working on a custom page is covered later in this article in
           the section Add localized files to your custom page.
           Localized content will be based on the user or organizational locale for the application
           the custom page is running. The language for your application is based on user or
           admin defined language preferences in the user app settings or admin settings in the
           Power Platform admin center. If neither has been set, the base language set when the
           environment was created is used.
              ７ Note
              Content shown in a Power Apps Control Framework (PCF) control will localize to the
              applications locale language without additional changes needed on the custom
              page. More Information Localizing PCF Controls
           Add localized RESX Web resource files to your
           solution
              1. Go to make.powerapps.com  , select the Solutions area, and then open the
                solution you want.
              2. On the command bar, select New > More > Web Resource. This opens a panel to
                add your RESX web resource file.
           All files added to your solution need to follow a specific format that includes
           {filename}.LanguageID.resx, where the language ID is the numeric value for that
           language. This format is necessary because the framework relies on the naming
           convention to identify which resource file should be used to associate the appropriate
           localized string to a label control.
              ） Important
              The RESX {filename} must be the same for all your files.
       For example, all localized string files have the name CustomPageLoc.LanguageID.resx,
       which means for English it is CustomPageLoc.1033.resx, for French
       CustomPageLoc.1036.resx, and for Arabic CustomPageLoc.1025.resx. The display name for
       every file added must also be the same name.
       In the example below all files have CPLoc as the display name. The display name must be
       the same to ensure all localized content is used properly on a custom page for each
       language. We recommend that you add the corresponding name for the language in the
       Description field to help identify the content when you view the files in the custom page
       designer. Also, you'll need to add the same language's RESX file that you're working in.
       For example, if you are authoring in English, be sure to add the English RESX file.
       After you have added your web resource to your solution, make sure to publish the
       changes. Publishing ensures the file is available to add to your custom page. Here's an
       example of the web resource RESX files that have been added to a solution and are now
       available to add to a custom page.
       Add localized files to your custom page
       Add localized files to your custom page when you're creating or editing a page.
      To add a language to your page, select the Resources icon on the left to open the
      Resources pane.
      Select Add resource in either one of two places.
      A dialog opens that lists all the available web resources in your solution. To find your
      files quickly, you can use the search at the top of the dialog to search for the Display
      name that displays all your localized RESX files. You only need to select and add the file
      that matches the language that you are using to author your page. In this example, the
      English file is the only file you need to add.
       ７ Note
       It isn't necessary to add every file-you only need to add one. The solution and
       platform maps the uploaded languages based on the display name to the language
       web resource files that you added to your solution. When you add multiple files, a
       dialog is displayed with an error message, which states that files have already been
       loaded to your page.
      If you don't see the RESX web resource with the language you want to add in the dialog,
      you'll need to add the file to your solution using the steps described earlier in this
      article.
      After selecting Add, the panel closes, and the web resource is listed in the Resources
      pane.
       Manage localized web resources
       After a web resource language has been added to your page, you can manage the file
       by selecting the ... ellipses next to the file. A flyout opens where you can refresh the web
       resource if it has been updated. You can also remove the resource from your page. You'll
       need to refresh the RESX resources on your page if the display name has changed or
       any of the string keys have been updated in the RESX file that's been published to your
       solution. Note that updating the translations in the RESX file and publishing the solution
       doesn't require the RESX on your page to be refreshed.
       Add the localized string to your label controls
       To add localized content to your label control, select the label and set the function to
       the resource using the Power Fx text function of the control. To do this, select the label
       control, and then select the Text function.
      Using the text function, set the value to the web resource and the value you want that is
      in your web resource RESX file. After setting the expression, the content will appear in
      the preview for the page.
      Save and publish your changes to the page.
       ７ Note
       Make sure you also save and publish your changes to the app. Saving and
       publishing both the page and app are needed to ensure your localized labels
       render with the appropriate strings at runtime.
       ） Important
       When you add form controls, make sure you localize the labels. They do not
       automatically pull localized labels when you bind the control to a Microsoft
       Dataverse table. Currently, you'll need to add strings for the labels to your resx files,
       unlock the form control, and then set the displayName property to your localized
        string using the same expression for your custom labels, text, tooltips, etc.
       Run your app with the localized content
         1. After publishing your page and your app, select Play in the app designer to open
          the app in a separate browser tab.
         2. Select your custom page on the site map.
         3. The labels for your controls display the localized content. Test each language
          added to your app and pages by selecting Personalization Settings under Settings
          (gear icon) at the top of the app.
         4. Then, on the Languages tab, set the User Interface Language to the language you
          would like to test.
       Right-to-left support for custom pages
       With localized content, there are several languages that require a right-to-left
       orientation for content rendered on your page. Right-To-Left (RTL) is fully supported for
       languages like Arabic and Hebrew and the page will change at runtime automatically for
       these languages.
        ） Important
        Right-to-left orientation for icons, shapes, and images aren't currently supported in
        custom pages. If you add an icon, shape, or image it may not behave as expected,
        so please be careful when using these types of controls on your custom page.
       To review RTL when building a custom page, you will need to go to the page settings,
       select upcoming features, search for RTL, and enable the setting. Setting this option
       shows an RTL or LTR button in the preview window where you can switch between
       orientation without having to run your app. If you would like to see your custom page
       running RTL, you can add &flags=isRTL=true to the end of the URL in your browser
       when running your app to test RTL for your page.
       Known limitation for exporting solutions with
       resx files
       Resx files don't automatically get added when you export your solution and import it
       into a new environment.  This is a known limitation and will require you to upload your
       resx files into your new environment.  So, if you have a developer environment, and you
       export your solution and import into a production environment, you'll need to add your
       resx localization files into your production environment solution.
       See also
       Create or edit model-driven app web resources to extend an app
       Overview of custom pages for model-driven apps
     Known issues with custom pages in a
     model-driven app
     Custom pages bring the power of canvas apps into model-driven apps. Below are the known
     issues to be aware of.
      ） Important
      Using custom pages with mobile devices is currently in public preview. Offline and device
      capability controls like barcode scanning, capturing photos from device, or attaching files
      isn't supported.
      Custom pages aren't supported within App for Outlook and return an error on loading.
     Maker-related issues
        When a custom page is modified, such as saved and published, the model-driven app isn't
        aware of the change. The model-driven app continues to use the last version of the custom
        page when the model-driven app was published. A model-driven app published through
        app designer, solution explorer, or Publish all updates all custom pages in the model-driven
        app.
        Images, icons, and shapes aren't currently supported with Right-To-Left (RTL) languages.
        The App.ConfirmExit property isn't supported in custom pages.
        The ability to get the current data formats from users settings including date, time,
        numbers, and currency isn't supported.
        Custom pages use a canvas app hosting session that can time out after 8 hours. However,
        the Unified Interface session has a longer timeout. When the timeout happens, an error
        message bar appears that prompts the user to refresh the browser.
            When a custom page with code component is opened for editing, a security dialog is
            shown. Selecting Go back on the security dialog doesn't navigate back to the parent
            context. The user can close the browser tab to leave Power Apps Studio.
            Not all canvas app controls are available with custom pages. However, custom pages
            support the most common canvas app controls and custom pro-dev components. For more
            information about what is available, see Design a custom page for your model-driven app
            Makers need to share custom pages to allow another maker to make changes, which is a
            different behavior than the typical model-driven app components. If a custom page can't be
            shared from the Solutions area, open the environment in Power Platform admin center, and
            then open Resources > Power Apps > Page > Share. Similarly, to reuse the canvas app
            components inside the custom page, the corresponding canvas app component library also
            needs to be shared with the custom page makers.
            The maker experience for the custom page doesn't have support for certain Power Apps
            component framework APIs like Navigation and Web APIs, which is in line with the stand-
            alone canvas apps. However, these APIs are available in the published app where the
            custom page is added to model-driven apps. More information: Add code components to a
            custom page for your model-driven app.
            The maker experience for the custom page is currently not enabled in sovereign clouds. If
            you would like to enable it for a maker session, append
            "powerappsPortalApps.enableEditInShellAppDesigner=true" as a query parameter to the
            https://make.powerapps.com/   url.
            Makers can't use cross-environment Dataverse references in a custom page.
       User-related issues
            When a user with no Power Apps user privileges opens a custom page in the model-driven
            app, they see an error mentioning no active entitlements to use Power Apps. More
            information: Licensing overview for Microsoft Power Platform and the associated licensing
            guide.
            Custom pages require third-party cookies to be enabled, which is required by the canvas
            app runtime.
            When a user is prompted for consent with connectors and selects Don't allow, the custom
            page renders but without data. The user doesn't get notified that data retrieval is skipped.
       After a model-driven app or custom page is changed and published, loading a custom page
       can take longer than normal, and no page loading spinner is shown.
       Native player support is available for iOS, Android, and Windows in online-only mode.
       Offline support currently isn't supported.
       When you go back to a custom page from another page, the page state isn't restored so
       the page appears like a new navigation. State is also not persisted when switching between
       multi-session tabs in multi-session apps. For more information about multi-session support
       with model-driven apps, go to Customer Service workspace sessions and tabs.
       While attempting to sign in, the current behavior caused by a user selecting anywhere away
       from the sign in box causes the pop out window for sign in to shift behind the app browser.
       When a user runs an app that isn't compliant with their organization's Data Loss Prevention
       (DLP) policies, they see an error dialog and the 'Technical details' reflects the app isn't DLP
       compliant.
       When there are multiple custom pages in an app, the consent dialog asks for data
       permissions for all of the connectors in all the custom pages even if they haven't yet been
       opened.
    Connections
       All custom pages share the connection infrastructure, as if they were part of the same
       canvas app. For instance, if a model-driven app has two custom pages and one is connected
       to SQL Server while the other isn't, the consent dialog will still appear and require
       permission for SQL access even if the page being opened doesn't require it.
        Custom pages in model-driven apps don't support connection detection through the
        Connected.connected property.
        The number of connectors in a model-driven app, across all custom pages, shouldn't exceed
        10. The number of connection references, across all custom pages, shouldn't exceed 20. The
        number of connectors and connection references can increase the wait time an app user
        experiences when the user plays an app with custom pages.
        The App Permissions dialog is not opened when a custom page is first opened by a user in
        the Power Apps mobile app. This behavior can cause the page to appear frozen, but is
        expected behavior. To resolve this issue, open the app in a browser to approve the
        permissions before playing it in the Power Apps mobile app. You can also run the
        AdminPowerAppApisToBypassConsent PowerShell command to bypass the need for the
        permissions dialog by a Power Platform administrator.
     See also
     Model-driven app custom page overview
      Last updated on 08/06/2026
         Use live monitor to troubleshoot page
         behavior in model-driven apps
         07/19/2025
         Live monitor can help you debug and diagnose problems, which help you build faster, more
         reliable model-driven apps. Live monitor provides a deep view into how an app runs by
         providing a log of all activities in your app as it runs.
            ） Important
            Live monitor must be run on the model-driven app and not directly on a custom page.
         Start a live monitor session
         There are two ways to open a live monitor session.
              From Power Apps
              From a model-driven app
         From Power Apps
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   , select Apps.
            2. Select ... next to the model-driven app or on the global command bar, and then select
              Live monitor.
      3. On the Live monitor browser tab that opens, select Play model-driven app on the
       command bar.
      4. When prompted, select Join.
      5. The app loads in a new browser tab with a message indicating the monitoring session.
       Switch back to the live monitor tab to view activity.
                                            
    From a model-driven app
      1. Play your model-driven app.
      2. Add &monitor=true to the end of the URL in your web browser, and then refresh the
       page.
      3. Select Live monitor on the command bar.
     Filter monitored activity
     When you filter on a model-driven app custom page-related events in live monitor, you can
     get information about related tables, tables, controls, and components, such as on a custom
     page, in live monitor as your app runs.
                                                        
     For example, to filter on the custom page that uses the Gallery1 control, select the Control
     column header > Filter by, enter Gallery1, and then select Apply.
     For more information about model-driven app monitoring, go to Debug a model-driven app
     with live monitor
     Close a live monitor session
     To close the monitoring session, close the browser tab where the monitored model-driven app
     is playing.
     Next steps
     Use live monitor to troubleshoot model-driven app form behavior
        Generate a page using natural language
        Use natural language to build a generative page that's created using AI. Generative pages are an
        AI-driven experience designed to simplify, accelerate, and improve your app design process in
        model-driven apps. By interacting with the app agent, you create fully functional pages in your
        model-driven apps by describing what you need in natural language and specifying which
        Microsoft Dataverse tables to reference. You can even attach an image of what you'd like the
        page to look like.
        After you describe the page, the system then processes your requirements and specifications and
        intelligently generates React code that covers both the front-end user experience by selecting the
        right components and determining the best layout, and the corresponding business logic.
        Through an interactive, conversational experience, you can refine the page design in real time,
        adjusting elements, layout, and functionality to perfectly match your vision.
        Development approaches
        You can create generative pages using two approaches:
             Power Apps (make.powerapps.com): As described in this article, makers can create and
             iterate on generative pages directly in the browser by using a conversational UI experience.
             Available in the United States, Great Britain, Australia, and Singapore.
             AI code generation tools: Developers who prefer working with local development tools and
             direct access to TypeScript and React code can use external tools like Claude Code to
             develop generative pages locally with a code-first approach and CLI-based deployment.
             Available worldwide on public clouds. More information: Create and edit generative pages
             with AI code generation tools
        Prerequisites
             The Power Platform environment must be located in one of the following regions: United
             States, Great Britain, Australia, or Singapore.
        Create a generative page in model-driven apps
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. Open a model-driven app for editing.
           3. In the app designer, select Add page > Generative page.
             A dialog opens. To create a new page, select Describe a page. A full-page generative page
             experience opens.
                ７ Note
                The same dialog also lists existing generative pages in your environment that you can
                add to this app. By default the list is filtered to Published pages; switch the filter to All
                if you don't see the page you're looking for.
           4. In the text box, type a description of the type of page you want to create. Include functional
             requirements and optionally any UX specifications. For example, you could enter Build a
             page showing Account records as a gallery of cards using a modern look and feel. Include
             name, entityimage on the top, and website, email, phone number. Make the gallery scrollable
             by using data from the Account table. If you want the page to support multiple languages,
             follow the guidance in Localize a generative page.
                 Tip
                Not sure where to start? The Intelligent Apps Catalog   includes a Prompt Catalog
                with pre-built prompt templates and reference images for common page patterns
                (galleries, Kanban boards, dashboards, and more) that you can use as a starting point.
           5. Add tables and images as appropriate by selecting Add data > Add table. You can link up
             to six Dataverse tables. In the screenshot, the account table is added.
                                             
     6. Optionally upload one or more images to guide the UI of your generated page by selecting
      Add data > Attach image. This can be a rough napkin sketch or a higher resolution image.
      The image can represent the structure or layout of the entire page you want to create or it
      can be visuals for a certain section or component you want to mimic.
       ７ Note
       If you want the generated page to display a particular image, instead of attaching the
       image to the prompt, you can (1) include the image in a referenced Datatable table
       and have the agent retrieve the image from there, (2) host the image publicly and give
       the agent the URL, or (3) add the image as a web resource and give the agent the URL
       for the web resource.
     7. Optionally enable or disable the Include images (preview) tool to allow the agent to utilize
      images from a curated, safe library of 25,000 stock images to support use cases like
      default/placeholder images, decorative backgrounds, static content blocks, and richer
      empty or error states.
     8. Optionally choose the AI model you want to use to generate the page.
                                             
       ７ Note
       GPT-4.1 is currently the only available model in the Power Apps maker experience for
       generative pages.
        Tip
       Want to use the latest AI models? You can do so by creating and editing generative
       pages with AI code generation tools, which give you access to newer frontier models.
     9. When you're finished describing the page, select Generate page.
     The agent begins a multistep build process that you can observe in real time:
        Thought streaming: The agent first outlines its interpretation of your prompt, listing
        requirements, assumptions, and an execution plan.
        Code generation: Next, it writes the underlying code for your page based on the plan.
        Transpilation: The generated code is then transpiled to ensure compatibility and proper
        rendering.
        Final rendering: Finally, the completed user experience is displayed.
     If the user experience isn't displayed at the end of this process, you can view it by selecting the
     Preview tab.
     View the generated code, iterate, and publish
     After generating your page, you have several options to refine and finalize it:
       1. View and edit the generated code Select the Code tab to view the code generated by the
        app agent.
      You can refine the output in two ways:
         Iteratively chat with the app agent to fix errors, adjust layout, or add functionality.
         Manually edit the code by selecting Edit on the Code tab. After making some edits,
         you can select Save to commit your changes as a new iteration, or Cancel to discard
         your changes.
      Learn about the dataApi object methods used for data operations
     2. Compare iterations After completing two or more iterations with the agent, you can select
      Compare on the Code tab to view a code diff between the current and previous iteration.
       ７ Note
       This capability is currently only available starting with the second iteration in the
       current session.
     3. Attach a screenshot for quick reference In the chat experience, select Attach > Add
      screenshot to include a screenshot of the current preview with your next interaction with
      the app agent. A screenshot is useful for helping to adjust the visuals of the page. You can
      alternatively attach other images to help refine the visuals of the entire page or a particular
      piece of the page.
     4. Check for accessibility issues (new) After each iteration of code generation, the
      Accessibility assistant at the bottom of the screen scans the generated code assessing it
         with respect to accessibility. You can see a high level status update directly on screen and
         can choose to open the detailed results in a panel. Select Auto fix to pass any violations
         directly to the agent for it to try to automatically resolve.
       5. Save and publish In the command bar, select Save to avoid losing progress on your page.
         When you're satisfied with your page, select Save and Publish to publish all pending
         changes for the app, including any generative pages.
       ） Important
       While the agent makes a best-effort attempt to generate complete, production-ready code,
       including considerations for accessibility and security best practices, you're ultimately
       responsible for validating the code. Ensure the generated code meets your organization's
       standards and compliance requirements.
     Common tasks with generative pages
     This section covers common scenarios and tasks when working with generative pages in your
     model-driven apps.
     Set up a page to accept input parameters
     Generative pages can accept the input parameters recordId, entityName, and data enabling
     them to receive contextual data when navigated to. To configure a page to accept parameters,
     describe what the page should accept in your prompt and the agent wires up the initialization
     code automatically. For example:
       Set up the page to accept an account recordId. When the page loads, use these to fetch 
       and display the corresponding account details.
       Configure this page to accept a data parameter containing a custom filter object. Use 
       it to filter the displayed records when the page loads.
     Go to a generative page
     You can navigate to a generative page programmatically using Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo,
     passing input parameters if the target page is set up to receive them. For examples and full API
     details, see Navigate to and from a generative page using Client API.
     Use specific images in a page
     Use one of these three approaches to use specific images in your generative pages.
     Store images in a Dataverse table
     Include the image in a Dataverse table that's referenced by your generative page, and instruct the
     agent to retrieve the image from there. When creating your page, tell the agent how to get the
     right image from your table.
       Build a product catalog page showing products from the Product table. Display the 
       product image from the ProductImage column, along with the name, description, and 
       price.
     Host images externally and reference by URL
     Host your images on an external server or content delivery network (CDN) and provide the agent
     with the URL to the image:
       Display the company logo using this URL: https://example.com/images/logo.png at the 
       top of the page.
     Add images as web resources
     Upload the image as a web resource in your solution and reference it by its web resource URL:
       1. Add the image as a web resource in your solution.
       2. Note the web resource name (for example, new_/images/banner.png).
       3. Reference it in your prompt or code using the web resource URL format described here:
       Use the banner image from web resource new_/images/banner.png as the page header 
       background.
     Adding generative pages to solutions
     Generative pages are solution-aware and can be added to a solution (via an app) to facilitate
     moving between environments. To add a generative page to a solution, do the following:
      ） Important
      If your generative page was created during the preview phase, you must load the generative
      page in the model app designer to initiate a one-time migration to the new solution-aware
      data model. When the page loads in the designer, you observe an "Upgrading your page"
      progress message. Don't close the window until migration completes.
      1. Add the app containing your generative pages to a solution
           In Power Apps, select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and open the desired
           solution.
           Select Add existing > App > Model-driven app.
           Select the app that contains the generative pages.
      2. Export the solution (as managed or unmanaged)
           Ensure the app sitemap is included in the solution. If not, it should be requested
           during dependency checks.
           Generative pages (shown as UX Agent Project rows) are also requested based on their
           dependency on the sitemap.
      ７ Note
      Check these items if no generative pages are requested during dependency checks:
         Pages created during preview will only appear if they've been migrated. Load them in
         the designer to trigger migration.
         If the sitemap is included in the solution and your generative pages have been
         migrated, try making a minor change to the sitemap, such as reordering or renaming a
         page, republishing the app, and then trying the export again.
     After export, you can import the app and generative pages into another environment. When
     opened in the designer in the target environment, only the first prompt and published code are
     available. The full agent conversation doesn't transfer with the page.
        Localize a generative page
        To localize a generative page, ensure your prompt covers the follow items:
             Specify your languages. Tell the agent which languages you want the page to support,
             ideally language name and LCID.
             Request translated text. Ask the agent to create a translation dictionary for all user-visible
             labels and text in the page for each language.
             Enable RTL support. If your environment includes an RTL language like Arabic or Hebrew,
             ask the agent to implement the appropriate right-to-left layout support.
             Use regional formatting. Ask the agent to format dates, numbers, and currency using each
             user's preferences from their Dataverse user settings, rather than using hardcoded formats
             or locale codes.
        For detailed implementation guidance and code patterns, go to the localization instructions    in
        the Power Platform Skills repository.
           ７ Note
           The sitemap entry for a generative page isn't localized by default. Sitemap localization needs
           to be handled separately in the app designer.
        Limitations
        These are the current limitations of generative pages:
             Your page can connect to only Dataverse tables (up to 6 for a single page). No other data
             sources can be used.
             Your prompt can have a maximum of 50,000 characters.
             When you create generative pages through in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com), only US
             English is a supported prompting language.
             Collaboration isn't supported. Ensure only one maker is working on a generative page at a
             time to avoid unintended conflicts.
             Only these data types are supported:
                Choice
                Currency
                Customer
                Date and Time
         Date Only
         Decimal Number
         Floating Point Number
         Image
         Lookup
         Multiline Text
         Status
         Status Reason
         Text
         Whole Number
         Yes/No
         Unique Identifier
     Frequently asked questions
     Can I start designing my app in Plan Designer and then use
     generative pages?
     Yes, while there's currently no direct integration between plans and generative pages, you can
     use plans to define your tables and apps, and then switch to the model-driven app designer to
     create any desired generative pages.
     Are there any additional fees or credits needed to use
     generative pages?
     No, the maker experience for generative pages (and plans) don't require any additional AI or
     message credits.
     What kind of images work best for guiding the UI generation?
     It depends on your goal. If you know exactly how you want the final page to look, clear and
     detailed sketches or wireframes (whether hand-drawn or digital) are most effective. If you only
     have a general concept and want the agent to fill in the details, quick whiteboard sketches or
     even napkin drawings can work well.
     Can I use generative pages with canvas apps or other
     app types?
     No, generative pages are currently only supported in model-driven apps.
     Is there a way to reuse or clone a generative page
     across environments?
     Yes, generative pages are solution-aware elements that can be moved across environments. Only
     the last published version of the code and the first prompt are maintained with the solution; the
     full revision history remains on the original environment.
     Can I edit the generated code manually?
     Yes. You can manually edit the generated code by selecting Edit on the Code tab. Your changes
     are saved as a new iteration. Select Cancel to cancel your edits if you choose not to keep them.
     Is the code generated by generative pages guaranteed
     to be production-ready and compliant with my
     organization's standards?
     No. While the agent makes a best-effort attempt to produce high-quality, production-ready code
     with accessibility and security best practices in mind, it's your responsibility to validate the
     output. Always review the generated code to ensure it aligns with your organization's standards,
     policies, and compliance requirements.
     How do I give feedback on the feature?
     The best way to give feedback on generative pages is to use the thumbs up/down buttons in the
     chat experience that are available after each iteration. We also strongly encourage you to select
     Yes on Share relevant content samples and additional log files so that we can debug or attempt
     to recreate any issues you encountered with the feature.
     What if I don't see generative pages enabled in
     my environment?
     Confirm that your environment is in one of the supported regions for the Power Apps maker
     studio experience: United States, Great Britain, Australia, or Singapore. If your region isn't listed,
     you can still create and edit generative pages using AI code generation tools, which are available
     worldwide on public clouds. More information: Create and edit generative pages with AI code
     generation tools
     Related articles
        Create and edit generative pages with AI code generation tools
        FAQ about generative pages in model-driven apps
        Intelligent Apps Catalog (prompt templates for generative pages)
        Legal terms
      Last updated on 06/25/2026
     Create and edit generative pages with AI
     code generation tools
     This article describes how to use AI code generation tools, such as GitHub Copilot CLI and Claude
     Code, to create and edit generative pages for model-driven apps in Power Apps. This approach
     allows you to integrate advanced code generation capabilities directly into your development
     workflow, allowing you to create new generative pages or iterate on existing ones using natural
     language instructions.
     Using AI code generation tools with generative pages provides an alternative development
     approach that complements the UI-based experience in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com). This
     code-first approach is designed for developers and technical makers who prefer working with
     local development tools and CLI-based workflows.
     What you can do with code generation tools
        Create one or more generative pages in a single run from plain-language requirements
        Create the supporting Microsoft Dataverse tables your pages need, or reuse existing ones,
        including sample data for new tables
        Place artifacts into a new or existing app and solution, including creating an app or solution
        on the fly
        Update existing generative pages by requesting changes or enhancements through your AI
        tool
        Deploy directly to your Power Apps environment using PAC CLI commands
        Work locally with your preferred IDE and development tools, with npm install and
        IntelliSense support for the generated code
     How it works
      1. You describe what you want to build in natural language, for example, "Create a generative
        page dashboard showing top accounts by revenue."
      2. A planner agent analyzes your request and proposes a plan. The plan might include one or
        more pages, the Dataverse tables the pages need (new or existing), and the app and
        solution where the artifacts live. The planner then delegates to specialized agents to build
        what the plan describes. For example, a table builder and a page builder.
              3. You review and adjust the plan before building. You can change the number of pages, swap
                 or add tables, target a different app, or place the artifacts in a different solution.
              4. The agents generate production-ready TypeScript and React code for your page or pages,
                 along with supporting files for local development.
              5. The tool deploys the artifacts to your environment using generative page PAC CLI
                 commands, and optionally runs a verify-in-browser step that exercises the page with
                 generated tests.
              6. Your generative page appears in your model-driven app.
          Prerequisites
          Before you start, ensure you have the required software and permissions described here.
          Software requirements
                                                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
           Component                                                   Minimum               More information
                                                                       version
           Node.js                                                     18.0 or later         Download Node.js
           Power Platform CLI (PAC CLI)                                Latest                Install PAC CLI
           GitHub Copilot CLI, Claude Code, or other code              Latest                GitHub Copilot CLI      or Claude
           generation tool                                                                   Code
          Additional requirements
                 A Power Platform environment with a model-driven app to deploy pages.
                 An authenticated PAC CLI session connected to your target environment.
                    Go to Authenticate Power Platform CLI for more details on getting connected.
             ７ Note
             This capability is available worldwide in public clouds.
          Install the plugin
          Run the installer to set up all Power Platform plugins in either PowerShell or a Windows
          command window.
       PowerShell
       iwr https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/power-platform-
       skills/main/scripts/install.js -OutFile install.js; node install.js; del install.js
       dos
       curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/power-platform-
       skills/main/scripts/install.js | node
      The installer automatically:
         Detects available tools (Claude Code, GitHub Copilot CLI)
         Registers the plugin marketplace and installs all plugins
         Enables auto-update so plugins stay current
      After installation, restart your AI tool if needed.
      Install only the generative page plugin
      To install only the generative page plugin for GitHub Copilot CLI or Claude Code:
        1. Add the Power Platform Skills marketplace plugin: /plugin marketplace add
         microsoft/power-platform-skills
        2. Install the Power Apps plugin: /plugin install model-apps@power-platform-skills
       ７ Note
       For Claude Code, you can install the plugin with different scopes, such as global, local, or
       user. Depending on the scope, you need to be in the correct directory for Claude Code to
       use the plugin. Go to Extend Claude with skills
      Once installed, you can use the plugin by either:
         Running the /genpage command explicitly.
         Describing the page you want to create. The tool automatically detects and uses the plugin.
        Tip
       Turn on auto-update to automatically receive updates to the marketplace and skills. Use the
       /plugin command, navigate to Marketplaces, choose the marketplace, and turn on auto-
           update.
        Using other AI code generation tools
        For other AI code generation tools, ensure your tool has access to the generative page resources
        from the Power Platform skills    GitHub repository. The model-apps plugin folder includes
        component documentation, sample code, PAC CLI command reference, and workflow instructions
        necessary to create code adhering to generative page requirements, including how to create
        pages that support multiple languages and regions. Consult the repository readme       for
        information about accessing and using these resources with your preferred tool.
        Skills overview
        The Power Apps plugin provides this skill for working with generative pages.
                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
         Skill              Command      Description
         Generative pages    /genpage    Create code for generative pages (for creation or editing scenarios)
        This skill enables you to describe what you want to build and have the AI tool generate complete
        TypeScript and React code for your generative page, then deploy it directly to your Power Apps
        environment.
        Create a new generative page
        Follow this workflow when building a new page or set of pages from scratch.
           1. Start a conversation with your AI tool. Describe what you want to create. Be as specific or as
              open-ended as you want — the more vague the request, the more the agent fills in itself.
              You can also attach an image or other materials to guide visuals, theming, and layout. For
              example:
                   "Create a generative page dashboard showing our top 10 accounts by revenue using
                   the Account table"
                   "Build two pages for managing my volunteer signups — one to browse open shifts
                   and one to confirm a signup — using sample data"
                   "Make a generative page for displaying incident reports on a map using the Incident
                   table"
       2. Choose create or edit if asked. If the planner agent isn't sure whether you want a new page
        or to update an existing one, it asks. To follow this workflow, choose to create a new page.
        For editing, go to Edit an existing generative page.
       3. Answer questions about what to build. The planner might ask what kind of page you want,
        offering a few examples and accepting a custom description, such as what data to use,
        layout, what information to display, interactions, and so on. Be specific about business
        needs and data requirements, identify mobile requirements early, and mention any UI
        components or layout preferences. The planner might also ask clarifying questions such as
        whether to use Dataverse tables or hard-coded sample data, and whether to add the page
        to an existing app or create a new app.
       4. Review and adjust the plan. The planner presents a plan that includes the page or pages it
        intends to build, the Dataverse tables to use or create (with the columns it plans to use), the
        app to host the page (new or existing), and the solution where the artifacts live. Iterate with
        the agent to adjust anything you want changed — for example, the number of pages, which
        tables are used or created, the target app, or the target solution. Confirm the plan when it
        matches your intent.
       5. Let the agents build and deploy. The specialized agents generate the page or pages,
        supporting tables, and code, then deploy to your environment.
       6. Optionally verify in browser. After the build, the agent might offer to run a verify-in-browser
        step that runs automatically generated Playwright tests against the page to confirm it loads
        and functions correctly. Use this to catch obvious issues before testing manually.
       7. Test and iterate. Open your model-driven app in Power Apps and navigate to the new page.
        If you need to make changes, return to your AI tool and describe the updates in natural
        language.
      ７ Note
      You can change the name or position of the generative page in the sitemap at any time from
      the model-driven app designer.
     Edit an existing generative page
     Use this workflow to update a page that already exists in your environment.
      1. Retrieve the existing page. In your AI code generation tool, request to retrieve the existing
        generative page by providing the page ID (GUID) or the page name in the sitemap and the
        app it's in. For example, "I want to update the Pet Adoption generative page from the Demo
        app."
      2. Describe your updates. Tell the AI tool what changes you want to make. For example:
           "Add a filter to show only active records"
           "Change the layout to display cards in a grid instead of a list"
           "Add a chart showing adoption trends over time"
           "Update the form to include the new custom field for pet temperament"
      3. Review, publish, test, and iterate. The AI tool generates updated TypeScript code based on
        your requested changes. Follow the same review, publish, and test process described in the
        "Create a new generative page" section. Continue iterating with natural language
        instructions until the page meets your requirements.
     Local development files
     When the AI tool generates a page, it also writes two supporting files to your local workspace to
     make reviewing and iterating on the code easier:
        package.json — declares the runtime and development dependencies the generated page
        compiles against. Run npm install after generation to install these dependencies.
        genpage.d.ts — ambient TypeScript declarations for objects that aren't installed via npm,
        such as dataApi and pageInput.
     With both files in place and npm install complete, your editor's IntelliSense, such as in VS Code,
     works against the generated code, so you can review or hand-edit the page without seeing red
     squiggles for unresolved types.
     Set up a page to accept input parameters
     Generative pages can accept the input parameters recordId, entityName, and data, enabling
     them to receive contextual data when navigated to from other pages or code. When you instruct
     the AI tool to configure input parameters, it generates the appropriate initialization code so the
     page reads and uses those values when it loads.
     Describe the parameters you want in your prompt:
              "Set up the page to accept an Account recordId and entityName. When the page loads, use
              these parameters to fetch and display the corresponding account details."
              "Configure this page to accept a data parameter containing a custom filter object. Use it to
              filter the displayed records when the page loads."
        To navigate to the page and pass these parameters, see Navigate to and from a generative page
        using Client API.
        Localization
        When you create a generative page using the Power Apps plugin for Claude Code or GitHub
        Copilot CLI, localization is handled automatically. The agent detects all languages enabled in your
        environment and generates code so that the page works with all of those languages. The page
        respects each user's preferred language and regional formatting preferences for dates, numbers,
        and currency.
        If you want to target a different set of languages than those enabled in your environment, you
        can ask the agent to adjust, for example:
           "Update this page to support English, French, and Spanish only."
           ７ Note
           The sitemap entry for a generative page isn't localized by default. To localize sitemap entries,
           update them separately in the app designer.
        For more information, go to the localization instructions    in the Power Platform Skills repository.
        Troubleshooting
        Page fails to load in Power Apps
        If you navigate to your generative page and observe an error message or blank screen:
           1. Open browser developer tools (F12 in most browsers).
           2. Select the Console tab.
           3. Copy the complete error message, including the stack trace.
       4. Return to your AI code generation tool and paste the error with context:
        "I'm getting this error when opening the page: [paste error here]. Please fix the issue."
        The AI tool analyzes the error, identifies the root cause, and generates a fix.
       5. Review the fix and ask the tool to republish the page.
     Reverting to a working version
     If recent changes broke your page or made issues worse, you can ask the AI tool to roll back to a
     previous working version:
     "The recent changes broke the page. Please revert to the last working version."
     The AI tool then:
       1. Identifies the changes that were made
       2. Restores the previous working code
       3. Redeploys the stable version
     Best practices
        Start simple. Begin with a basic version of your page and iterate to add complexity.
        Test frequently. Deploy and test your page after each significant change.
        Be specific. Provide detailed requirements to get better initial results.
        Use existing patterns. Reference similar pages or UI patterns when describing your
        requirements.
        Validate generated code. Always review the generated code to ensure it meets your
        organization's standards and compliance requirements.
      ） Important
      While AI code generation tools make a best-effort attempt to generate complete,
      production-ready code with accessibility and security best practices, you're ultimately
      responsible for validating the code. Ensure the generated code meets your organization's
      standards, policies, and compliance requirements.
     Limitations
     The limitations for generative pages created with AI code generation tools are the same as those
     for generative pages created in the Power Apps maker portal:
        Your page can connect to only Dataverse tables.
        Collaboration isn't supported—ensure only one maker is working on a generative page at a
        time.
        Only these data types are supported: Choice, Currency, Customer, Date and Time, Date
        Only, Decimal Number, Floating Point Number, Image, Lookup, Multiline Text, Status, Status
        Reason, Text, Whole Number, Yes/No, Unique Identifier.
     Related content
        Generate a page using natural language with model-driven apps
        Navigate to and from a generative page using Client API
        dataApi object methods for generative pages
        Power Platform CLI reference
      Last updated on 06/06/2026
     Navigate to and from a generative page
     using client API
     This article provides examples of navigating to generative pages in model-driven apps by using
     the client API navigateTo method. Learn how to open generative pages inline or in a dialog,
     and how to pass input parameters such as a record ID or custom data.
      ７ Note
      This method is supported only on Unified Interface.
     Find the page ID
     Each of the following examples requires the ID of the target generative page. To find the page
     ID:
       1. Open the model-driven app containing the generative page in the app designer.
       2. Select the generative page in the pages list.
       3. In the properties pane, copy the GUID shown in the Generative page field.
     Open a generative page inline without parameters
     Opens a generative page as a full-page inline view with no input parameters.
      JavaScript
      var pageInput = {
          pageType: "generative",
          pageId: "<genPageID>"
      };
      var navigationOptions = {
          target: 1
      };
      Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
          .then(
              function () {
                  // Called when page opens
              }
          ).catch(
              function (error) {
                  // Handle error
              }
          );
     Open a generative page inline with record context
     Passes a recordId and entityName to the generative page so the page can load and display a
     specific record. The target generative page must be set up to accept these parameters.
      JavaScript
      var pageInput = {
          pageType: "generative",
          pageId: "<genPageID>",
          entityName: "account",
          recordId: "00aa00aa-bb11-cc22-dd33-44ee44ee44ee" // replace with actual record 
      GUID
      };
      var navigationOptions = {
          target: 1
      };
      Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
          .then(
              function () {
                  // Called when page opens
              }
          ).catch(
              function (error) {
                  // Handle error
              }
          );
     Open a generative page inline with custom data
     Passes a data object containing custom key-value pairs to the generative page. The target
     generative page must be set up to accept these parameters.
      JavaScript
      var pageInput = {
          pageType: "generative",
          pageId: "<genPageID>",
          data: { status: "active", category: "premium" }
      };
      var navigationOptions = {
          target: 1
      };
      Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
          .then(
              function () {
                  // Called when page opens
              }
          ).catch(
              function (error) {
                  // Handle error
              }
          );
     Open a generative page as a centered dialog
     Opens a generative page in a centered dialog, passing both record context and custom data.
     Adjust width and height as needed.
      JavaScript
      var pageInput = {
          pageType: "generative",
          pageId: "<genPageID>",
          entityName: "account",
          recordId: "00aa00aa-bb11-cc22-dd33-44ee44ee44ee", // replace with actual record 
      GUID
          data: { view: "summary" }
      };
      var navigationOptions = {
          target: 2,
          position: 1,
          width: { value: 70, unit: "%" },
          height: { value: 80, unit: "%" },
          title: "<dialog title>"
      };
      Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
          .then(
              function () {
                  // Called when the dialog closes
              }
          ).catch(
              function (error) {
                  // Handle error
              }
          );
     Open a generative page as a side dialog
     Opens a generative page as a side dialog using position: 2.
      JavaScript
       var pageInput = {
           pageType: "generative",
           pageId: "<genPageID>"
       };
       var navigationOptions = {
           target: 2,
           position: 2,
           width: { value: 500, unit: "px" },
           title: "<dialog title>"
       };
       Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
           .then(
               function () {
                   // Called when the dialog closes
               }
           ).catch(
               function (error) {
                   // Handle error
               }
           );
      Unsupported: Open a generative page in a side
      pane
       ） Important
       Opening a generative page by using Xrm.App.sidePanes.createPane() isn't currently
       supported.
        JavaScript
        // Not supported — page content doesn't render
        const pane = await Xrm.App.sidePanes.createPane({
            title: "My Generative Page",
            paneId: "GenPage",
            canClose: false,
            width: 400
        });
        pane.navigate({ pageType: "generative", pageId: "<genPageID>" });
       Use a centered or side dialog via Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo instead.
      Navigate from within a generative page using
      client API
      When you navigate from inside a generative page component, use (window as any).Xrm to
      access the Xrm object, since the React component scope doesn't provide direct access to it.
      Navigate to another generative page with record context and
      custom data
       TypeScript
       const xrm = (window as any).Xrm;
       xrm.Navigation.navigateTo({
           pageType: "generative",
           pageId: targetPageId,
           entityName: "account",
           recordId: selectedRecordId,
           data: { view: "summary" }
       });
       ７ Note
       When you navigate within model-driven apps, avoid constructing raw URLs or
       manipulating window.location.
      Navigate to a generative page via URL (external
      callers only)
      You can navigate to a generative page by constructing a URL with the following structure:
       https://<your-org>.crm.dynamics.com/main.aspx?appid={app-id}&pagetype=genux&id=
       {page-id}&recordid={recordId}&entityname={entityName}&data={encoded-json}
      You must URL-encode the data parameter as JSON. For example, to pass a custom filter object:
       https://<your-org>.crm.dynamics.com/main.aspx?appid={app-id}&pagetype=genux&id=
       {page-id}&data=%7B%22status%22%3A%22active%22%7D
      You must set up the target generative page to accept these parameters.
      Related articles
         Generate a page using natural language
         navigateTo (Client API reference)
      Last updated on 04/10/2026
       Add or remove forms, views, or charts
       Article • 07/11/2024
       Add or remove one or more forms, views, or charts for a model-driven app.
       Add or remove forms from an app
       To add or remove forms for a model-driven app, follow these steps:
        1. In the app designer, on the left navigation pane select Pages and then select a
         table form, such as the Contact form.
        2. On the right forms pane, the list of available forms is displayed. Forms that are
         available in the app appear under In this app. Forms available to add but not
         displayed in the app appear under Not in this app. To remove a form that's
         displayed, select ... > Remove. To add a form that isn't displayed, select ... > Add.
                                                 
           ７ Note
           By default, all forms are selected and made available in the app. Select specific
           forms to enable only those forms you want available in the app.
        3. Select Publish to make the changes available to other users.
       Manage views and charts
       To add or remove one or more views or charts for a model-driven app, follow these
       steps:
                 1. In the app designer, on the left navigation pane select Pages and then select the
                    table you want to update, such as the Accounts view.
                 2. On the right properties pane, select the Views or Charts tab.
                 3. Next to the views or charts you want to add or remove, select ..., and then select
                    Remove, or if the item is under Not in this app, select Add.
                 4. Select Save.
                 5. Select Publish to make the changes available to app users.
                ７ Note
                By default, all views and charts are selected and made available in the app. Select
                specific views or charts to enable only those components you want available in the
                app.
              See also
              Create and design model-driven app forms
              Understand model-driven app views
              Create a model-driven app system chart
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
        Enable your app and custom tools in
        Microsoft 365 Copilot
        [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
        Power Apps in Microsoft 365 Copilot lets users interact with your model-driven app directly from
        Copilot. When a user talks to the agent, it can surface your app's data as interactive UI, a grid for
        browsing records or a form for viewing, editing, or creating them, all without leaving the Copilot
        experience. Additionally, you can add custom MCP tools and interactive UI to the app’s
        declarative agent. This functionality is achieved via MCP apps    which is an extension to MCP
        that enables MCP servers to deliver interactive user interfaces to hosts. The feature works by
        generating an MCP server and declarative agent from your app.
           ） Important
                This is a preview feature.
                Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted functionality.
                These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early
                access and provide feedback.
        Prerequisites
              A model-driven app. Currently, this feature is only available with model-driven apps.
              Microsoft 365 Copilot license. Required for both the maker deploying the agent and end
              users interacting with it.
              Permission to upload custom apps in Microsoft Teams. Your Microsoft 365 admin might
              need to enable this. Check your Teams admin settings if the upload option is not visible.
        Set up Power Apps in Copilot
           1. Go to Power Apps    , select the environment you want, and then open the desired model-
              driven app.
           2. Select the App MCP icon on the left navigation bar, and then select Set up MCP. This action
              sets up the MCP server for the app, which provides MCP tools for Copilot conversations.
              This is a one-time step and may take a few seconds to complete.
     3. Save and Publish the app.
     4. Select Download app package to download declarative agent generated by your app’s
      MCP. This package contains the agent definition, built-in tools for record and data along
      with the configuration needed to deploy your app’s experience to Microsoft 365 copilot.
           5. Upload the compressed file that is named similar to declarative-agent-app name.zip to
             Microsoft Teams or Microsoft 365 Agents:
                   Teams: Upload for personal use as a custom app in Teams. More information Upload
                   your app in Teams
                   Microsoft 365 Agents: Publish the package for a team or group from the Microsoft 365
                   admin center. More information: Publish agents
        You can now ask questions about the tables in the app from this declarative agent. Built-in tools
        can show an interactive grid   for the dataset queries.
        Additionally, intelligent forms    can be used to create, view, and edit records within the Microsoft
        365 Copilot context.
      ７ Note
      You can customize the declarative agent included in the app package at you own discretion.
      To reduce the possibility of unexpected behavior when using AI agents, use caution when
      you customize the declarative agent code. More information: Declarative Agents for
      Microsoft 365 Copilot.
     Create custom tools
     In addition to the built-in tools available within the app’s declarative agent, its functionality can
     be extended by incorporating custom tools and widgets. A prompt builder–based designer can
     be used to integrate custom MCP tools and interactive UI components into the app’s declarative
    agent. For example, in the Zava Airlines app, a custom tool can be added to display the flight
    map alongside the flight timeline as a Gantt chart in a side-by-side view.
      ） Important
         If you encounter the error message while creating a custom tool: “This feature has
         been disabled,” it indicates that the AI prompts environment setting isn't enabled. For
         more information, see AI prompts environment setting.
         Custom tools and UX is based on Microsoft 365 Copilot extensibility for declarative
         agents. More information: Microsoft 365 Copilot Extensibility and Supported
         capabilities
      1. Select Create custom tool under the Tools section of the App MCP tab.
      2. Provide a clear, descriptive name and description for the tool, as Microsoft 365 Copilot uses
       this information to determine when to invoke it.
      3. Add the instructions to output data for the tool that defaults to JSON format. You can
       change it to text if the tool doesn't have UX associated with it. Instructions can include
       queries for specific records of the table in the app or it could be an input parameter to the
       tool to be used in tool-chaining. Make sure to experiment and choose the right prompt AI
       model.
      4. Select Test to check and validate tool's output and then select Next. You can now create
       and paste optional custom HTML specific to this tool. This HTML can be created using the
       /generate-mcp-apps-ui skill or your own development tool. Select Save.
     5. Download the updated app package zip and upload the latest version to Microsoft Teams or
      Microsoft 365 agents.
     6. Invoke the tool by issuing the relevant query in the app agent to see the custom UI in
      action.
     ７ Note
     You can issue '-developer on' command to Microsoft 365 Copilot to see agent debug info
     and tools invoked. For troubleshooting common issues, see Troubleshoot MCP apps in
     Microsoft 365 Copilot
    Dynamic tool chaining
    Tool chaining in Power Apps declarative agents uses the Microsoft 365 Copilot orchestrator to
    reason over user intent and dynamically invoke multiple MCP-powered actions (tools) in
    sequence to complete a task. The orchestrator selects, parameterizes, and executes the right
    combination of MCP app actions based on context and function descriptions, enabling
    end‑to‑end workflows across Power Apps and enterprise systems. Here’s how to create a tool
    with parameterized input.
     1. Select Create custom tool under the Tools section of the App MCP tab.
     2. Provide a clear, descriptive name and description for the tool, as Microsoft 365 Copilot uses
      this information to determine when to invoke it.
     3. In this example, we use a Sankey chart visualizer. First, define the JSON input schema
      required to generate a Sankey chart. Next, create a prompt for the Sankey chart visualizer
      tool. The tool exposes an input parameter named SankeyDiagramVisualizationInputData.
      This parameter is interpreted by the tool and transformed into the JSON structure expected
      by the visualizer. Choose a clear and descriptive input parameter name so the LLM can
      correctly identify and invoke the tool.
                                             
     4. You can now create and paste custom HTML specific to this tool. This HTML can be created
      using the /generate-mcp-apps-ui skill or your own development tool. Select Save.
     5. Download the updated app package zip and upload the latest version to Microsoft Teams or
      Microsoft 365 Agents.
     6. Copilot can now use natural language queries to fetch the data and pass it to the tool for
      visualization. For example you can use a complex query to dynamically get inputs from the
      'issues' table data and visualize them using Sankey Chart Visualizer tool.
                                                                
       7. You can further refine the Sankey chart by continuing the conversation.
                                                                
     Full screen example
     In this example, an expand button is rendered only if the host supports fullscreen mode.
       js
       function renderExpandButton(app) {
         const ctx = app.getHostContext();
         // Don't render the button if the host doesn't support fullscreen
         if (!ctx?.availableDisplayModes?.includes('fullscreen')) {
           return null;
         }
         const btn = document.createElement('button');
         btn.addEventListener('click', async () => {
           const result = await app.requestDisplayMode({ mode: 'fullscreen' });
           // Always use result.mode — the host may grant a different mode than requested
           console.log('Granted mode:', result.mode);
         });
         return btn;
       }
     The same guard applies to any host capability. Check getHostContext() before use:
       js
       const ctx = app.getHostContext();
       // Theme
       if (ctx?.theme) applyTheme(ctx.theme);
       // Current display mode
       if (ctx?.displayMode === 'fullscreen') { /* adjust layout */ }
       // Available modes
       if (ctx?.availableDisplayModes?.includes('inline')) { /* show collapse option */ }
     React to capability changes at runtime via onhostcontextchanged — the host context can update
     after connect():
       js
       app.onhostcontextchanged = (ctx) => {
         if (ctx.theme) applyTheme(ctx.theme);
         if (ctx.displayMode) updateLayout(ctx.displayMode);
       };
     Using fullscreen mode with tool results
     A common pattern is to switch to fullscreen automatically when the widget receives data, giving
     the content more space to render.
       js
       app.ontoolresult = async (result) => {
         const data = result.structuredContent;
         if (!data) return;
         // Expand to fullscreen when data arrives, if the host supports it
         const ctx = app.getHostContext();
         if (ctx?.availableDisplayModes?.includes('fullscreen') && currentMode !== 
      'fullscreen') {
          const granted = await app.requestDisplayMode({ mode: 'fullscreen' });
          currentMode = granted.mode;
          document.body.classList.toggle('mode-fullscreen', currentMode === 'fullscreen');
        }
        renderData(data);
      };
     You can also let the user decide — render into the current mode first, then offer the expand
     button:
      js
      app.ontoolresult = (result) => {
        const data = result.structuredContent;
        if (!data) return;
        renderData(data);        // render in whatever mode is active
        updateExpandBtn();       // show the expand button now that there is content
      };
     Related articles
     Generate MCP app widgets with AI code generation tools
     FAQ for Power Apps in agents
      Last updated on 05/21/2026
           Generate MCP app widgets with AI code
           generation tools
           [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
           This article explains how to use AI code generation tools like GitHub Copilot CLI or Claude
           Code to generate interactive model context protocol (MCP) apps for your model-driven Power
           Apps MCP tools. MCP apps are self-contained HTML files that render a tool's JSON output
           visually as cards, charts, dashboards, or maps inside any MCP Apps compatible host, including
           Microsoft 365 Copilot, Claude, and Visual Studio Code.
           If you have an MCP tool that returns JSON data, the generate-mcp-app-ui skill can produce a
           polished, theme-aware widget that displays that data in a compact visual format directly inside
           a chat conversation.
             ） Important
                  This is a preview feature.
                  Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
                  functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers
                  can get early access and provide feedback.
                  MCP apps support in Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat is generally available as of March
                  2026. Power Apps support for MCP apps in declarative agents is currently in public
                  preview. For the full announcement, see MCP Apps now available in Copilot Chat   .
           What you can do with the generate-mcp-app-ui skill
                Create visual widgets for any MCP tool by describing what you want and pasting the
                tool's JSON output.
                Choose the right visual for your data, such as charts for numeric trends, cards for
                structured records, tables for comparisons, maps for coordinates, and so on.
                Support light and dark themes automatically through Fluent UI design tokens.
                Add interactivity so widgets can call your tool again at runtime (for example, a refresh
                button).
                Refine the UX iteratively by describing changes in natural language. For example, "make
                the gallery compact," "add a chart," or "use a card layout."
             Prerequisites
             Software requirements
                                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
              Component                                           Minimum           More information
                                                                  version
              GitHub Copilot CLI, Claude Code, or other code      Latest            Claude Code    , GitHub Copilot
              generation tool                                                       CLI
              A modern browser                                    Any               For previewing generated
                                                                                    widgets locally
             Additional requirements
                   An MCP tool that returns JSON output. Your tool's output type must be set to JSON.
                   A working internet connection. Widgets load Fluent UI and other libraries from the
                   Content Delivery Network (CDN) at runtime.
             Install the plugin
             Run the following installer command from GitHub Copilot CLI or Claude Code. The installer
             automatically detects available tools and installs all Power Platform plugins, including
             generate-mcp-app-ui.
               /plugin marketplace add microsoft/power-platform-skills
             To install only the MCP App widget skill:
               /plugin install mcp-apps@power-platform-skills
                Tip
               Turn on auto-update to automatically receive skill updates. Use the /plugin command,
               navigate to Marketplaces, choose the marketplace, and turn on auto-update.
             Skills overview
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
            Skill                Command           Description
            MCP Apps widget      /generate-mcp-    Generate a self-contained MCP app widget (HTML file) for
            generator            app-ui            an MCP tool's JSON output
           The skill is also triggered by natural language phrases such as "create a widget," "build a
           widget for my tool," or "make an MCP app."
           Generate a widget
           Follow these steps to create a new widget for an MCP tool.
              1. Create and test a custom tool from model-driven app designers and copy the full JSON
                output. Make sure the tool's output type is set to JSON. More information: Create custom
                tools
              2. Invoke the skill and describe what you want displayed, pasting the JSON output into the
                conversation:
                  /generate-mcp-app-ui Visualizes flights using an animated arc map for routes 
                  and a synchronized Gantt timeline for departure and arrival schedules, 
                  enabling quick understanding of flight coverage, timing, and overlaps. Here's 
                  an example of the tool's output: {"flight_records":[{"Departure Time":"2024-
                  07-02T05:00:00Z","Arrival Time":"2024-07-02T07:30:00Z","Flight Name":"Zava 
                  1001","Status":"Active","Airport":"Seattle-Tacoma","Airport1":"Los Angeles 
                  Intl"},{"Departure Time":"2024-07-02T03:00:00Z","Arrival Time":"2024-07-
                  02T10:00:00Z","Flight Name":"Zava 103","Status":"Active","Airport":"Seattle-
                  Tacoma","Airport1":"Hartsfield-Jackson"}]}
              3. Review the generated HTML file. The skill writes a self-contained HTML file, for example,
                 flight-map.html, to your working directory.
              4. Preview in a browser. Open the HTML file locally as widget has the fallback option for
                testing. You can ask chat agent to add standalone HTML preview if missing.
              5. Iterate. Describe any changes directly in the chat:
                     "Make the map larger"
                     "Add tool tips on the Chart"
                     "Decrease the height and fit in 250 pixels with responsive layout and no scroll bars"
             ７ Note
             The skill requires actual JSON from your tool—not sample or mock data. The data shape
             drives the widget generation. If you paste mock data, the generated widget might not
             work correctly when connected to the real tool.
           Deploy your widget
           Once your widget is ready, copy the HTML file to the UX input for corresponding tool and it
           will be returned as the tool's UI response. Refer to your create custom tools documentation for
           details.
           Add interactivity with callServerTool
           If you also provide your tool's name when invoking the skill, the generated widget can include
           interactive tool-call integration. This allows the widget to call your tool again at runtime. For
           example a refresh button on the tool UX can call itself.
             /generate-mcp-app-ui Show the current weather conditions with a refresh button. 
             Tool name: get_weather. Tool output: 
             {"city":"Seattle","temp_f":54,"condition":"Overcast","humidity":78,"forecast":
             [...]}
           The skill wires up app.callServerTool in the widget so that when users select Refresh, the
           widget fetches updated data directly from your tool. If you don't provide a tool name, the
           widget is read-only and renders only the data delivered through the ontoolresult callback.
                Microsoft 365 Copilot chat: See MCP apps in Copilot Chat    for deployment paths
                including sideloading for testing, deploying through the Microsoft 365 admin center for
                organizational use, and publishing to the Microsoft 365 agent store.
                Power Apps declarative agents: See Power Apps MCP declarative agent documentation
                for how to connect MCP tools with model-driven apps.
                Other MCP hosts: Consult your host's documentation for the MCP apps widget
                registration process.
           Widget technical details
           MCP apps protocol
           Widgets communicate with the chat host using the App class from the
           @modelcontextprotocol/ext-apps package. The protocol manages these callbacks and methods.
                                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
              Callback / method                 Description
              app.ontoolresult                  Fires when the host delivers tool data. Your data is always at
                                                result.structuredContent—not result.data or result itself.
              app.onhostcontextchanged          Fires when the host context changes, including theme (ctx.theme is
                                                'light' or 'dark').
              app.onteardown                    Fires when the widget is removed from the conversation.
              app.connect()                     Establishes communication with the host. All event handlers must be
                                                registered before calling connect().
              app.getHostContext()              Returns the current host context (including initial theme) after
                                                connect() completes.
              app.callServerTool({ name,        Calls a tool interactively. Returns result.isError and
              arguments })                      result.structuredContent.
            CDN imports
            Widgets load all dependencies from CDN. No build step or local installation is required.
            Dependencies come in two formats:
                  ECMAScript Modules (ESM) — imported inside <script type="module"> using a URL
                  ending in /+esm
                  Universal Module Definition (UMD) — loaded via a plain <script src> tag; registers
                  itself globally as a side effect
                                                                                                  ﾉ
                                                                                                     Expand table
                    Library                      Format   URL                                               Purpose
                    @modelcontextprotocol/ext-   ESM       cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@modelcontextprotocol/ext-  MCP apps
                                                                                                             App class
                    apps                                  apps/+esm
                    @fluentui/tokens             ESM       cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@fluentui/tokens/+esm        webLightTheme
                                                                                                            /
                                                                                                             webDarkTheme
                                                                                                            token sets
                    @fluentui/web-               UMD       unpkg.com/@fluentui/web-                         Fluent UI
                    components@beta                       components@beta/dist/web-components.min.js        custom
                                                                                                            elements
            Visual states
            Every widget handles three states:
                                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
             State     Guidance
             Loading   Show a <fluent-spinner> with a contextual message ("Finding attractions…" not just
                       "Loading…").
             Loaded    Render the content compactly. Use the full available width.
             Error     Show a friendly message and a "Try again" button. If the widget uses callServerTool, the
                       button re-invokes the tool.
            Fluent UI components
            The following Fluent UI web components are available in widgets:
            <fluent-card>, <fluent-button>, <fluent-text-input>, <fluent-textarea>, <fluent-dropdown>,
            <fluent-listbox>, <fluent-option>, <fluent-checkbox>, <fluent-spinner>, <fluent-divider>,
            <fluent-badge>, <fluent-switch>, <fluent-tooltip>
            Theme support
            Widgets support light and dark themes through Fluent UI design tokens. The widget applies
            the correct token values when the host's theme changes via onhostcontextchanged. Always use
            token variables, for example, var(--colorNeutralForeground1), rather than hardcoded color
            values to ensure correct rendering in both themes.
            Color tokens
                                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
             Use                                     Token
             Primary text                            var(--colorNeutralForeground1)
             Secondary text                          var(--colorNeutralForeground2)
             Primary background                      var(--colorNeutralBackground1)
             Card/hover background                   var(--colorNeutralBackground2)
             Brand/accent                            var(--colorBrandBackground)
             Text on brand surface                   var(--colorNeutralForegroundOnBrand)
        Use                   Token
        Borders               var(--colorNeutralStroke1)
        Error text            var(--colorStatusDangerForeground1)
        Success text          var(--colorStatusSuccessForeground1)
       Never use hardcoded hexidecimal or RGB values. Don't invent token names not listed here.
       Best practices
          Provide real test data. The skill analyzes the actual JSON structure to select the right
          visual. Mock data produces widgets that break when connected to the real tool.
          Be specific about the visual. Describe the format you want, such as map, chart, table, or
          card layout. Vague descriptions lead to generic results.
          Start with one view. Widgets are compact conversation cards, not full applications. No
          tabs, page navigation, or search bars that duplicate the chat input.
          Test with both themes. Preview in light and dark mode to verify contrast and readability.
          Match the visual to the data. Maps for coordinates, charts for numeric or trend data, cards
          for structured records, tables for comparisons.
       Limitations
          Widgets must load all external libraries from CDN. An internet connection is required at
          runtime.
          Full screen display mode requires additional implementation beyond what the skill
          generates.
          The skill doesn't handle MCP server registration or deployment to the Microsoft 365
          admin center. You must complete those steps separately.
          Authentication (OAuth 2.1, Microsoft Entra SSO) is handled by the MCP host environment,
          not the widget HTML itself.
       Related documentation
       Microsoft 365 developer documentation
          MCP Apps now available in Copilot Chat
          Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit
       Power Platform documentation
           Create and edit generative pages with AI code generation tools
           Power Platform CLI reference
        External references
           Model Context Protocol (MCP) specification
           Fluent UI Web Components
           Power Platform Skills repository
        Last updated on 04/22/2026
    Understand model-driven app views
    Model-driven apps use views to define how a list of records for a specific table are displayed in
    an application.
    A view defines:
       The columns to display.
       The order of the columns.
       How wide each column should be.
       How the list of records should be sorted by default.
       The default filters applied to restrict the records that appear.
    Once a view is available to the app, the user can select it.
    When makers design an app, they decide which of the public views to make available to app
    users. These decisions are typically based on the type of user, such as sales or marketing, that
    use the app.
    Views can be developed through the table designer or the app designer.
                                                    
     Types of views
     There are three types of views: personal, system, and public.
        Personal view - Personal views are owned by individuals and only visible to that person
        unless they share their personal views with others.
        System view - As a system administrator or system customizer, you can edit system views.
        System views are special views the application depends on, which exist for system tables
        or are automatically created when you create custom tables. These views have specific
        purposes and some additional capabilities.
        Public view - Public views are general purpose views that you can customize as you see
        fit. They're important because all app users can access them, when they're made available,
        by using the view selector. It's possible to use public views in subgrids on a form or as a
        list in a dashboard.
     Views within model-driven apps
     Users might want to view data in relation to a table in a range of ways. A drop-down list of
     views is frequently displayed in the application so these can be selected.
    Personal views are included above the list of system or public views that are available in the
    app. This makes it easier for users to find the data that is important to them.
    The records that are visible in views are displayed in a list. Views frequently provide options for
    users to change the default sorting, column widths, and filters to more easily find the data
    that's important to them.
    Views aren't only used by users within model-driven apps. Views can also be used to define the
    data source in, for example, charts that are used in the application.
    Personal views
    Personal views can be created by following these steps:
      1. Select Create view from the command bar in your model-driven app.
             2. Define the view filters.
             3. Select Save.
             ７ Note
             While you can create a new personal view based on a system or public view, you can't
             create a system or public view based on a personal view.
          Personal views can be created by users who have at least User level access to actions for the
          Saved View table.
          As system administrator, you can modify the access level for each action in the security role to
          control the depth to which people can create, read, write, delete, assign, or share personal
          views.
          System views
                                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
           System        Description
           views
           Quick Find    The default view used when searches are performed using Quick Find. This view also
                         defines which columns are searched when using search capabilities of Quick Find and
                         Lookup column views.
           Advanced      The default view used to display results when using Advanced Find. This view also defines
           Find          the columns used by default when new custom public views or personal views are created
                         without defining a view to use as a template.
           Associated    The default view that lists the related tables for a record.
           Lookup        The view that is displayed when you select a record to set for a Lookup column.
          System views aren't shown in the view selector and you can't use them in sublists in a form or
          as a list in a dashboard. You can't delete or deactivate these views. However, Power Platform
          admins can control whether system views are available or not to users with security roles. More
          information: Manage access to public system views (preview)
          For information about removing views, go to Remove views.
          System views are owned by the organization so that everyone can view them. For example,
          everyone has organization-level access to read records for the view (savedquery) table. These
       views are associated with specific tables and are visible within the Solutions area in Power Apps
       (make.powerapps.com). You can include these views in solutions because they're associated
       with the table.
         ７ Note
         System views are cached for performance optimization purposes and therefore plug-ins
         on the savedquery table aren't supported.
       Public views
       Some public views exist by default for system tables and for any custom table. For example,
       when you create a new custom table, it has the following combination of public and system
       views.
                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
        Name                                             Type
        Active table plural name                         Public
        Inactive table plural name                       Public
        Quick Find Active table plural name              Quick Find
        Table name Advanced Find View                    Advanced Find
        Table name Associated View                       Associated
        Table name Lookup View                           Lookup
       You can create custom public views. You can delete any custom public views you create in an
       unmanaged solution.
       You can't delete any system-defined public views.
       Custom public views added by a managed solution should only be deleted by uninstalling or
       updating the managed solution.
       How to access the view editor to create or edit
       views
                 App designer: If you're working in an app, you might want to use the app designer, which
                 provides a simple and intuitive user interface with drag-and-drop capabilities for creating
                 views. More information: Tutorial: Create and edit public or system views by using the app
                 designer
                 Solution area: In Power Apps, go to Solutions > open the solution you want > open the
                 table you want, and then select the Views area. Selecting a view opens it in the view
                 designer.
           Customize views
           As a system customizer you can customize views and subgrids through controls by making
           them read-only or editable as well as display an alphabetic list at the bottom of views or
           subgrids (jump bar).
           The following controls are available:
                                                                                                     ﾉ
                                                                                                         Expand table
            Grid control name      Read-only       Description
                                   or editable?
            Power Apps grid        Read-only or    This grid control includes accessibility enhancements and will
            control                editable        become the default grid control used in views and subgrids. This
                                                   control will eventually replace all other grid controls. More
                                                   information: Power Apps grid control
            Power Apps read-       Read-only       Modern grid with accessibility enhancements released in October
            only grid                              2021 and became the default read-only grid experience in April
            (deprecated)                           2022. More information: Power Apps read-only grid control
            Editable grid          Editable only   Legacy grid control. More information: Make model-driven app
            (deprecated)                           views editable using the editable grid control
            Read-only grid         Read-only       Legacy grid control that is deprecated. More information: The
            (deprecated)                           legacy read-only grid in model-driven apps is deprecated
           Next steps
           Opening the view designer
           Manage access to system views (preview)
            Last updated on 04/03/2026
         Open the view designer
         09/09/2025
         In this article, a view definition is opened that displays properties and options to configure a
         table view using the view designer for use with model-driven apps.
         Open a view for editing in Power Apps
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and then open the solution that needs to be
              modified. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item
              you want.
            3. Select the table that contains the required view, such as the Account table.
            4. Select the Views area.
            5. Select the view, such as the account table All Accounts view.
            6. From the view editor, the following tasks can be performed:
              Sort rows in a view
              Choose and configure columns in views
              Filtering data within views
         Next steps
         Creating and editing public views
         Create and edit public or system views
         Model-driven apps can contain a range of views, so that app users can open the most suitably
         presented and filtered version of the table. Views can be Personal, **System, or Public.
            ７ Note
            Views are tied to a given table. However, you can select views during the process of
            creating a model-driven app. By default, ALL views are made available in an app.
             Tip
            For a general introduction into views, go to Understand views in model-driven apps
         Create a public view in Power Apps
         Public views are available for users to display table records. App makers can create and
         configure public views using Power Apps.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps    and select an environment
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Solutions, and open the solution you want. If the item
              isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Open a table, such as the account table, and then select the Views area.
            4. Select New view on the command bar, and then enter a View name, and optionally enter
              a Description.
            5. If you want to have suggestions from Copilot for the columns to create for the form
              based on the View name and Description values, select Get AI-generated column
              suggestions. For more information about using this AI feature, go to Column suggestions
              by Copilot.
            6. Select Create.
            ７ Note
            Public views created in Power Apps that include Contains data or Does not contain data
            filters don't appear in the list of saved views in Advanced Find.
         Edit public views from a table
         In the solution that you opened earlier, create a new table or find an existing table where the
         public views need to be edited.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps    and select an environment
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Solutions, and open the solution you want. If the item
              isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Open a table, such as the account table, and then select the Views area, and then open
              the view you that want to edit.
            4. In the view designer, select + View column to add additional columns needed within the
              view. Or, in the Table columns left navigation pane drag the table columns onto your
              view.
                  Tip
                 Only include the specific columns you need for the view, as larger numbers of
                 columns in a view can cause degradation of grid performance.
         Tip
        The Default view in the Add column pane displays all columns. If preferred, select
        Standard or Custom to display a subset of columns.
      5. In the view designer, the following tasks can be performed:
         To change the column filtering select the header of the column where the filter is
         required, and then in the dropdown list select Filter by.
         To change the column sorting select the header of the column where sorting is
         needed then select Sort A-Z, Sort Z-A, Sort descending, or Sort ascending.
          You can configure multi-column sorts by holding Shift when selecting a sort
          option to add a sort condition to the set of the existing sorts.
               Configure column width by selecting and dragging the column to the desired
               position.
               Reorder columns by dragging a column to the desired position.
             ７ Note
             Depending on the data type of the column the term Sort A-Z/Sort Z-A or Sort
             ascending/Sort descending is used
              Tip
             It is also possible to change column order by selecting the column header and then
             selecting Move Right or Move Left.
         6. Select Save and publish to save the view and make it available for other users in your
           organization.
       Next steps
       How to configure view columns
       Learn about sorting within views
       Learn about filtering views
       Make views editable using sub-grids
        Last updated on 01/09/2026
         Choose and configure columns in model-
         driven app views
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
         Along with the filter criteria, the columns visible in a Power Apps view are very important to the
         value provided by the view. In this article, you create or edit views by performing the following
         tasks:
            ） Important
            The latest version of the view designer is currently in preview. Some features, like enabling
            or disabling presence for a column and adding a find column, aren't yet supported. To
            accomplish these tasks, open the view in the classic view designer.
                 Enable or disable presence for a column
                 Add find columns
         Opening the view editor
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Tables, and then open the table that you want. If the item isn’t in the side panel
              pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Select Views. The list of views for the table is displayed. You can also navigate to the table
              and views via solutions as shown below.
            4. Select an existing view to open it or on the toolbar select New view.
     Adding columns
     You can include columns from the current table or any of the related tables that have a 1:N
     table relationship with the current table.
     For example, you might want to display the owner of a user-owned table in a column. You can
     choose the Owner column of the current table to display the name of the owner. This appears
     as a link to open the User row for the person who is the owner.
     If you want to display the phone number for the owner of the row, you must select Owning
     User (User) from the Row type drop-down and then select the Main Phone column.
       Tip
      Only include the specific columns you need for the view. A larger numbers of columns in a
      view can cause degradation of view and grid performance.
     Add columns to views
      1. While creating and editing views, ensure that the Table columns panel is open. If it isn't,
       select View column on the toolbar.
      2. Select the columns you want to add to the view designer. This adds the column as a
       column on the right-hand of the view.
      3. Select the Related tab to see related tables and their corresponding columns.
     As you add columns, you increase the width of the view. If the width of the view exceeds the
     space available to show it in the page, horizontal scrollbars appear to allow people to scroll
     and view the hidden columns.
       Tip
      If your view filters on data for a certain column so that only rows with a certain value are
      shown, don’t include that column in the view. For example, if you are only showing active
      rows, don’t include the status column in the view. Instead, name the view to indicate that
      all the rows shown in the view are active.
      ７ Note
      When you add columns to Lookup views for updated tables, only the first three columns
      are displayed.
     Removing columns
      1. Select the header of the column you want to remove.
      2. In the dropdown, select Remove.
     Changing column widths
      1. Hover over the area between columns in the view.
      2. A line appears and your cursor becomes a double sided arrow.
      3. Drag the column to the appropriate width.
     Moving a column
     Click and drag the column header to the correct position.
       Tip
      You can also select the header of the column you want to move and from the dropdown
      select Move Right or Move Left.
     Next steps
     Create or edit view filters
      Last updated on 02/21/2026
        Create or edit filters in model-driven
        app views
        The filters in a Power Apps view define the records that a user is able to see when selecting the
        view for the current table. You can add or edit a filter for the columns that you include in a view
        by selecting the column and selecting Filter by in the view designer.
        You can also use the expression builder in the view designer. Use the expression builder to add or
        edit filters for any columns of the table in the current view or any columns in a related table.
        In this article, you create or edit filters by performing the following tasks:
             Edit or remove a filter condition
             Open the expression builder
             Add conditions to a filter
             Add a group condition to a filter
             Add a related table to a condition
             Group conditions of a filter
        Edit or remove a filter condition
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. On the left pane, select Solutions, and then open the solution you want.
           3. Open the table that you want, and then select the Views area.
           4. Open the view that you want to edit. The view properties panel lists existing filters.
     5. On the view properties panel, select a filter condition.
     6. Select the conditional operator that you want to use.
     7. Type or select the comparison value for the condition.
     8. Select Apply or to remove a condition, select Close and the condition is removed without
      confirmation.
     9. To save the filter select Save or to save the filter and make available to users select Save and
      publish.
    Open the expression builder
    Use the expression builder to redefine existing filters and add additional clauses.
    On the view properties right panel in the view designer, select Edit filters.
    Add conditions to a filter
     1. In the expression builder, select Add > Add row.
     2. Select a column for the condition.
     3. Select a conditional operator.
     4. Select a comparison value.
      Some filter conditions don't require a comparison value for the condition. For example, the
      operator Contains data doesn't require a comparison value. With other filter conditions, you
      choose the comparison value from an option set. For example, the Status column has the
      values Active and Inactive.
     5. Select OK.
    Add a group condition to a filter
     1. In the expression builder, select Add > Add group.
     2. Select the relational operator Or for the group. And is the default relational operator.
     3. Specify the first clause of the grouped condition. Select the column, conditional operator,
      and comparison value.
     4. Select Add > Add group.
     5. Specify the second clause of the grouped condition.
      You can select Collapse to display the group as a conditional expression.
    Add a related table to a condition
     1. In the expression builder, select Add > Add related table.
     2. Select a column from the current table that is related to another table. The table related to
      the column is shown in parenthesis. You can select columns that have a many-to-one, one-
      to-many, or many-to-many relationship with the related table.
     3. Select a column of the related table for the condition.
     4. Select a conditional operator.
       ７ Note
       Contains data is the only conditional operator that can be used with a related table in
       a view filter.
     5. Select or enter a comparison value.
    Group conditions of a filter
     1. In the expression builder, select the check box for the conditions that you want to group.
     2. Select More commands (...) for one of the conditions, and then select Make group.
     3. To ungroup a group, select More commands (...) for the group, and then select Ungroup
     Next steps
     Configure sorting in views
     Converting views into editable grids
      Last updated on 08/03/2026
             Sort rows in a model-driven app view
             Article • 11/12/2024
             When you create or edit a view, you can configure the sort order for either ascending or
             descending.
             To change the sort order in the view designer, go to Create a public view in Power Apps.
             Change the sort order of a view
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Solutions, and then open the solution you want. If the item isn’t in the side
                  panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
                3. Select Tables, open the table you want, and then select the Views area.
                4. Select a view to open it in the view designer.
                5. Select the leftmost column head, such as Account Name in the example here, and
                  from the column menu, select Sort A to Z or Sort Z to A. The sort order is
                  indicated in the column head with an up arrow or a down arrow.
                 6. If a sort order hasn't been set for the view, select Sort by, and then select the
                    primary sort by column.
                 7. To sort the view by additional columns, select Then sort by on the view properties
                    pane on the right, and then select a sort by column for the view.
                 8. To remove a filter expression, under Filter by in the view properties pane, select X
                    next to the filter expression you want to remove.
                 9. Select Save and publish to save the view and make it available to apps that include
                    the table.
              Next steps
              Table views overview
              Setting managed properties for views
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Power Apps read-only grid control
      ） Important
      The Read-only Grid control is deprecated. Use the Power Apps grid control instead. More
      information: Deprecation of Editable Grid and Power Apps Read-Only Grid controls
     The Power Apps read-only grid control lets users view and open records from views and subgrids.
     The control supports the latest Microsoft accessibility standards and is built to be performant and
     easily extensible for the future. The Power Apps read-only grid control also aligns with the latest
     Microsoft design guidance for fonts, sizing, and styling.
      ７ Note
      As of April 2022, the Power Apps read-only grid control is the default control for all read-
      only views and subgrids.
     Add the Power Apps read-only grid as a subgrid on
     a form
     When you add a subgrid to a form, the subgrid only appears on that form and not other forms or
     views.
     More information: Add and configure a subgrid component on a form
     Add the Power Apps read-only grid control to views for
     a table
     When you configure the Power Apps read-only grid control for a table, all views for that table
     display using that grid.
      1. Open solution explorer.
      2. Expand Entities, in the list of tables, open the table you want, select the Controls tab, and
        then select Add Control.
      3. In the Add Control dialog box, select Power Apps Read-only Grid, and then select Add.
     Configure the Power Apps read-only grid control
      1. In the Power Apps Read-Only Grid row, select the app types you want to apply the grid to.
        This selection makes the control the default control for the selected clients.
      2. Select the pencil icon next to the following properties to make the changes you want:
           Jump bar: By default, the jump bar is disabled. To display an alphabetic list at the
           bottom of views or subgrids (the jump bar), select the pencil icon in the Jump bar row.
           Under Bind to static options, select Enable in the dropdown list. Below is a screenshot
           of the jump bar enabled for the contact table in a model-driven app.
           Reflow behavior: Use this parameter to specify when the grid reflows into a list format
           or a grid format. Reflowing the control into a list is often better suited for small
           displays such as a mobile device. The default value is Reflow.
            Reflow: Allows the grid to render into list mode when there’s not enough display
            space.
            Grid only: Displays only as a grid even on smaller displays such as a mobile device.
            List only: Displays only as a list even when there's enough space to display as grid.
           Allow filtering: Determines whether filtering options are available to users in the grid
           column header dropdowns. The default value is Enable.
            Enable: Filtering options are available to users.
            Disable: Filtering options aren’t available to users.
           Allow range selection: Controls whether users can select a subset of the grid and copy
           that data to another application like Excel. The default value is Yes.
            Yes: Users can select and copy data from the grid.
            No: Users can’t select and copy data from the grid.
           Navigation types allowed: Determines which lookup controls in the grid render as
           hyperlinks. The default value is All.
            All: All table lookup columns render in the grid as a hyperlink.
            Primary only: Suppresses hyperlinks on all lookup fields except the primary column
            for the selected table.
                                                        
      3. To save your changes, select Save on the command bar. When you're ready to make the
        changes available to app users, select Publish on the command bar.
     Add the Power Apps read-only grid control to a subgrid
      1. Open solution explorer.
      2. Open the form that contains the subgrid.
      3. Select the subgrid where you want to configure this grid, and then select Change
        Properties on the command bar.
      4. In the Set Properties dialog box, select the Controls tab, select Add Control, and then
        select Power Apps Read-only Grid.
      5. To continue with configuring and publishing the control, see Configure the Power Apps
        read-only grid control.
     Opt out of the Power Apps read-only grid control
     While the Power Apps read-only grid control became the default grid experience in April 2022,
     you can opt your organization out of the automatic switch to this grid by following the steps
        here.
           1. Go to the Power Platform Admin Center   Manage > Environments. Select Settings on the
             command bar, and then select Product > Features.
           2. Turn off the Enable the modern read-only grid experience option in the Grids and views
             section.
          ７ Note
          As the legacy read-only grid is deprecated, this toggle to opt out of the automatic switch to
          the Power Apps read-only grid is eventually be removed.
        Known issues and limitations
        Grid rendering performance
        In general, grid performance can be increased by limiting the number of records fetched at once
        and limiting the number of columns in a view.
        If the page size is sufficiently large, the grid might take a long time to render. The current
        recommendation is to ensure the page size isn't too large, ideally no more than 25 rows.
        UI limitations and differences
             The grid doesn't currently support any theme customizations
             Cells with no data are blank instead of displaying three dashes ---.
             The owner column doesn't show online status and a people card for the user.
             Reordering columns from the grid column headers isn't supported.
             If the dataset displayed in the grid contains duplicate rows, the duplicates might not display
             in the grid. This can lead to the reported record count showing more records than are
             actually in the grid, or more records appearing when exporting the data to Excel or viewing
             the data in legacy Advanced Find. This behavior applies to all grid controls, not just the
             Power Apps read-only grid.
        Limitations with card form lists
        When a view or subgrid is narrow, it changes into a card list format that is better for small
        screens, such as mobile devices. The Power Apps read-only grid control displays the following
        behavior in a card list:
      Sort isn't currently available in a card list view. To work around this, create views with the
      sort order you want.
      Select all and Clear all aren't available in a card list view.
      The jump bar isn't available in a card list view. To work around this, select Search to filter
      records. Type the desired letter, and then press Enter.
      Images on a record in the list don't display in a card list view. This includes table icons, web
      resource images, custom images, and conditional images. The only image displayed for a
      record in the list are the initials of the record.
      There are no icons for context menu commands in a card list view.
      When there are no records, some lists have a prompt to create a new item. This button isn't
      displayed in a card list view that uses the Power Apps read-only grid control.
    The list view doesn’t display custom cards for the table
    To work around this issue, display a custom card by configuring the table to use the card form of
    the legacy read-only grid control.
     1. Go to Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) > Settings > Advanced Settings > Settings >
      Customizations > Customize the System > expand Entities > select the entity you want to
      customize > Controls tab > Add Control.
     2. Select Read Only Grid, and then select Add. Choose to display that grid on one or more
      client form factors.
     3. Select Configure property (pencil icon) for the Card Form property, and select the custom
      card form from the drop-down list.
     4. Select OK, and then Publish the customization.
    See also
     Explore data in a view on a grid page
      Last updated on 08/07/2026
    Power Apps grid control
    The Power Apps grid control represents the next evolution of the classic Power Apps read-only
    grid control, allowing users to view, open, and edit records from views and subgrids. In addition
    to inline editing, the control provides a number of other powerful capabilities including infinite
    scrolling, nested grids, grouping, aggregation, and is customizable. Like the read-only grid
    control, this control supports the latest Microsoft accessibility standards and aligns with the latest
    Microsoft design guidance. This control eventually replaces all read-only and editable grids in
    model-driven apps.
      Infinite scroll: A modern data browsing experience in which users can scroll indefinitely
      through data until they find the records they're interested in. Since there are no page
      boundaries, users can select more rows at once (up to 1,000 rows) to facilitate taking action
      against a set of records or perform bulk editing.
      Inline editing: This singular grid control can be utilized for read-only or edit scenarios.
      Nested grids: Makers can configure the grid to show surface related records. When
      configured, users can expand a row to see a subgrid of related records. Multiple rows in the
      grid can be expanded simultaneously. This functionality is an improvement over older grid
      experiences.
      Grouping: Users can organize tabular data in interesting ways by grouping the data based
      on a single column. Each group is collapsed initially, but users can expand and collapse the
      groups as desired. Grouping is exposed on most data types with the notable exception of
      lookup columns. Grouping isn't supported when paging on the grid is enabled.
      Aggregation: Users can surface meaningful insights from their data by enabling
      aggregation on one or more numeric columns in a grid. For each column, users can choose
      to see the total, minimum value, maximum value, or average of values from that column. If
      grouping is applied, this aggregate value is also displayed for each group.
      Customizable: Makers have the ability to modify various experiences inside the grid
      component.
                                                                                                   
        The editable grid control can be added to a subgrid on a form or to a table for all views for the
        table to be editable using these methods:
             For subgrids on a form, Add the Power Apps grid control using form designer.
             For all views for a table, you must use the classic solution explorer. Add the Power Apps grid
             control to a subgrid using classic solution explorer
        Add the Power Apps grid control using form designer
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   , select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and then open the
             solution you want. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the
             item you want.
           2. Select the Table within the solution, and then select the Forms area. Open the Main Form
             that contains the subgrid for editing.
           3. In the form designer, select Components on the left navigation pane, expand Grid, and then
             select Power Apps grid control. If the component isn't listed, select the subgrid on the form
             canvas, expand Components on the right property pane, select + Component, and then
      select Power Apps grid control from the Add component page.
       ７ Note
       By default, when you add the Power Apps grid control to a subgrid it isn't editable. You
       must configure the control.
     4. Configure the Power Apps grid control
     5. Select Done.
     6. Save and publish the form to save and make it available to app users.
    Add the Power Apps grid control to views using classic
    solution explorer
    When you configure the Power Apps grid control for a table, all views for that table display using
    that grid.
     1. Open the solution explorer.
     2. Expand Entities. Browse to the table you want and select it. On the Controls tab, select Add
      control.
      3. In the Add control dialog box, select Power Apps grid control, and then select Add.
         ７ Note
         By default, when you add the Power Apps grid control to a table, views aren't editable.
         You must configure the control.
      4. Configure the Power Apps grid control
      5. After configuring the Power Apps grid control to meet your needs, select Save on the
        command bar to save your changes. When you're ready to make the changes available to
        app users, select Publish on the command bar.
     Add the Power Apps grid control to a subgrid using
     classic solution explorer
      1. Open the solution explorer.
      2. Expand Entities, expand the table you want, and then select Forms.
      3. Open the form where you want to add the Power Apps grid control.
      4. On the form canvas, select the subgrid where you want to configure this grid (usually
        located on a form section), and then select Change properties on the command bar.
      5. In the Set properties dialog box, select the Controls tab, select Add control, and then select
        Power Apps grid control.
      6. To configure the control, go to Configure the Power Apps grid control.
      7. Select OK to close the Set properties dialog box.
      8. To save and make available to apps, select Save, and then select Publish.
      9. After configuring the Power Apps grid control to meet your needs, select Save on the
        command bar to save your changes. When you're ready to make the changes available to
        app users, select Publish on the command bar.
     Configure the Power Apps grid control
      1. Select the Power Apps grid control components. More information: Configure components
        on a form
      2. There are several properties included with the control to let you tailor the grid experience
        for that table. To modify any of these properties, select Edit in the corresponding row, and
        then change the value using the dropdown list under Bind to static options.
           The Enable editing property determines whether the grid is read-only or editable. The
           default value is No. Select Yes to make the grid editable. Editable grids have subtle
           visual differences to read-only grids including boolean columns showing toggle
           switches and dropdown and date fields displaying chevrons and date picker icons on
           hover or focus.
           The Enable filtering property determines if filtering options are available to users in
           the grid column header dropdowns. The default value is Yes.
           The Enable sorting property determines if sorting options are available to users in the
           grid column header dropdowns. The default value is Yes.
           The Enable grouping property determines if grouping options are available to users in
           the grid column header dropdowns. The default value is No.
           The Enable aggregation property determines if aggregation options (sum, minimum,
           maximum, average) are available to users in numeric columns of the grid. The default
           value is No.
           The Allow column reordering property controls whether users can reorder columns
           from directly within the grid. This control includes drag-and-drop of the column
           headers or using Move left and Move right actions from the column header
           dropdowns. The default value is No.
           The Enable multiselect property determines whether users can select multiple rows in
           the grid simultaneously or just a single row. The default value is Yes.
         The Allow range selection property controls whether users can select a subset of the
         grid and copy that data to another application like Excel. The default value is Yes.
         The Enable jump bar property can be used to display an alphabetic list at the bottom
         of views or subgrids. The default value is No. Below is a screenshot of the jump bar
         enabled for a subgrid in a model-driven app.
         The Enable pagination property can be used to decide between modern data
         browsing (infinite scroll) and paging buttons. The default value is No. Select Yes to
         disable infinite scrolling and surface paging buttons. Note that the Select all action
         isn't currently available when using infinite scroll, but users can still perform range
         selection.
         The Enable OptionSet colors property can be used to increase the visual appeal of
         choice columns by showing each value with its configured background color. The
         default value is No. Be sure to verify the configured color for each choice column to
         ensure readability and accessibility before enabling this property for a table.
         The Show row status icons property controls whether users see status icons (invalid,
         save in progress, saving, and so on) at the beginning of a grid row during the editing
         experience. The default value is Yes.
         The Show data type icons property determines whether column headers display an
         icon corresponding to the data type next to the column name. The default value is No.
         The Navigation types allowed property determines which lookup controls in the grid
         render as hyperlinks. The default value is All. Select Primary only to suppress
         hyperlinks on all lookup fields except the primary column for the selected entity, or
         None to suppress all hyperlinks in the grid.
         The Reflow behavior property determines whether the grid components render always
         in a tabular fashion (Grid only), always as a list (List only), or switches between tabular
         and list depending on the available width (Reflow). The default value is Reflow.
         The Show avatar property determines if the avatar is shown while the grid is in a list
         view. This avatar is typically represented as a colored icon with text showing the first
         letters of the row value. The default value is Yes.
         The Number of columns for list view property allows you to define the number of
         columns to render while the grid is in list view. The default number of columns for a
         list is 3, the maximum number of columns is 10.
           The Enable banded rows for list view property applies alternating color band to rows
           in the list view to improve record differentiation. The default value is No.
           The Show column labels for list view property displays column labels before values in
           a list view. The default value is No.
           The Child items property is used to configure the nested grid capability, which allows
           users to expand rows to see related records in a subgrid. To set up this property,
           specify the Entity where the related records come from and the View that defines the
           filters, sorts, and columns to show in the subgrid. The default value is no nested grid
           configured.
            The Child items parent ID property is also needed to configure a nested grid and
            specifies the column (and relationship) to use to link the parent and child tables
            together.
            The Disable editing in child items grid property provides some control over the
            editability of the nested grid. By default, the nested grid inherits the editability of
            the parent grid, but this property can be used to suppress editing in the nested grid
            when the parent grid is editable. The default value is No.
           The Customizer control property allows the maker to link to a single customizer Power
           Apps component framework control with definitions for changing the visuals or
           interactions for one or more columns in the grid or the empty grid visual.
           The Use first column for lookup edits property allows makers to select the column
           used for editing lookup cells. When set to Yes the cell shows and filters by the first
           column of the target table's lookup view. When set to No the cell shows and filters by
           the primary column. The default value is No.
     Customization
     For information about how to customize the Power Apps grid control using extensibility APIs, go
     to Customize the editable grid control.
     Known issues and limitations
     Limitations with card form lists
     When a view or subgrid is narrow, it changes into a card list format that's better for small screens,
     such as mobile devices. The Power Apps grid control displays the following behavior in a card list:
        Sort isn't currently available in a card list view. To work around this limitation, create views
        with the sort order you want.
      Select all and Clear all aren't available in a card list view.
      The jump bar isn't available in a card list view. To work around this limitation, select Search
      to filter records. Type the desired letter, and then press Enter.
      Images on a record in the list don't display in a card list view. This limitation includes table
      icons, web resource images, custom images, and conditional images. The only image
      displayed for a record in the list are the initials of the record.
      There are no icons for context menu commands in a card list view.
      When there are no records, some lists have a prompt to create a new item. This button isn't
      displayed in a card list view that uses the Power Apps read-only grid control.
    The list view doesn't display custom cards for the table
    To work around this, you can display a custom card by configuring the table to use the card form
    of the legacy read-only grid control.
     1. Go to Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) > Settings > Advanced Settings > Settings >
      Customizations > Customize the System > expand Entities > select the table you want to
      customize > Controls tab > Add Control.
     2. Select Read Only Grid, and then select Add. Choose to display that grid on one or more
      client form factors.
     3. Select Configure property (pencil icon) for the Card Form property, and select the custom
      card form from the drop-down list.
     4. Select OK, and then Publish the customization.
    UI limitations and differences from the read-only grid control
      The grid doesn't currently support legacy theme customizations.
      Cells with no data are blank instead of displaying three dashes ---.
         The owner column doesn't show online status and a people card for the user.
         Columns lookup filters, when using the 'Equals' or 'Does not equal' operator, only show
         lookup options available within the current set of applied filters.
           For example, if the contact table has users 'Person A', 'Person B', and 'Person C' but
           account table data only has rows referencing 'Person B' and 'Person C', then the column
           filter lookup for the contact column in the account grid only shows the options for
           'Person B' and 'Person C'. This is a change in behavior from previous grids.
      Known issues
         Column grouping isn't supported when paging on the grid is enabled.
         If the dataset displayed in the grid contains duplicate rows, the duplicates might not display
         in the grid. This can lead to the reported record count showing more records than are
         actually in the grid, or more records appearing when exporting the data to Excel or viewing
         the data in legacy Advanced Find. This behavior applies to all grid controls, not just the
         Power Apps grid control.
         If a user has read-only privileges to the main list and then navigates through a form to a
         subgrid representing an entity to which they have write privileges, the subgrid still won't
         allow the user to make changes as access is determined first by the main entity, then by the
         related entity.
         When using the Power Apps grid control in editable mode, lookup field cell customization
         options aren't supported.
         When the Power Apps grid control is configured as read-only at the table level but editable
         for a subset of views, events might not fire uniformly across the different configuration
         states.
      Related articles
      Explore data in a view on a grid page
      Last updated on 07/22/2026
         Make model-driven app views editable
         using the editable grid control
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
            ） Important
            The Editable Grid control is deprecated. Use the Power Apps grid control instead. More
            information: Deprecation of Editable Grid and Power Apps Read-Only Grid controls
         By default, users can't enter data directly using the read-only view control for views and
         subgrids on forms. Users select the row in the grid to open a form, edit the data, and then save,
         which requires multiple steps. With editable grids, users can do rich in-line editing directly from
         views and subgrids whether they're using a web app or tablet. This editing experience isn't
         available on phones.
         When editable grids are enabled through the editable grid control, users can edit the data
         inside most types of columns, including basic lookup columns and choices columns. Editable
         grids avoid the need to open a form.
         Add an editable grid to a main form
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   , select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and then open the
              solution you want. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select
              the item you want.
              2. Select the Table within the solution, and then select the Forms area. Open the Main Form
                that contains the subgrid for editing.
              3. In the form designer, select Components on the left navigation pane, expand Grid, and
                then select Editable Grid.
              4. Select the following for the grid.
                                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
                  Area                Property                     Description
                  Grid                Table                        Select the table you want that will display records
                                                                   in the grid.
                  Grid                View                         Select the table view you want displayed in the
                                                                   grid.
                  Grid                Lookup view                  Select to add a lookup. Select the lookup column
                                                                   to add (for example, select Primary Contact) and
                                                                   in the Default view list, select the data source for
                                                                   the lookup column.
                  Subgrid             Table                        If you have a nested grid select the Table and
                                                                   View for the nested grid (phones and tablets
                                                                   only).
                  Subgrid             Subgrid parent id            For the subgrid parent id, select the relationship
                                                                   for the tables. For example, the subgrid parent id
                                                                   table column connects the Account and Contact
                                                                   tables.
                  Group by            Enable or Disable            If you don't want to allow the user to group data
                                                                   by any column in the view (you want to save
                                                                   space, for example), in the Group by value select
                                                                   Disable.
                  Layout              Vertical or Horizontal       Determines how the grid displays on the form.
                  Allow filtering     Enable or Disable            Disable if you don't want users the ability to filter
                                                                   the grid by keyword.
                  Hide nested grid    Show column header or        Determines whether the grid header displays.
                  column header       Hide column header
                  Alphanumeric        Show the alphanumeric        Determines whether the filter bar located at the
                  filter bar          filter bar or Hide the       bottom of the grid is displayed.
                                      alphanumeric filter bar
                  Show component      Web, Mobile, Tablet          Determines the client type that can use the
                Area              Property                 Description
                on                                         editable grid control.
            5. Select Done.
            6. Save and publish the form to save and make it available to app users.
         For information about editing the properties of an existing subgrid on a form, go to Configure
         a subgrid component.
         Make main grids editable for views using the
         classic solution explorer
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   , select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and then open the
              solution you want. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select
              the item you want.
            2. On the toolbar select ... > Switch to classic. This opens solution explorer in a new browser
              window.
            3. In the Entities list (these represent Dataverse tables), open the table you want, select the
              Controls tab, and then select Add Control.
            4. In the Add Control dialog box, select Editable Grid, and then select Add.
            5. In the Editable Grid row that's added, select the client type you want to apply the grid to,
              web, phone, and tablet. This makes the editable grid control the default control for the
              selected client type. Since the control doesn't work with phones, you should select Web
              for desktop app users. At runtime, users are able to toggle between editable grids and
              read-only grids.
     ７ Note
     Since the editing experience is not available on the Phone form factor, if this control is
     configured for phones, you will see a read-only version of the list control.
      1. To add a lookup, in the Editable Grid area, select Add Lookup, and then in the Configure
       Property "Add Lookup" dialog box:
       a. In the Available Views list, select the view to add the lookup to (for example, select My
        Active Accounts).
       b. In the Available Columns list, select the lookup column to add (for example, select
        Primary Contact).
       c. In the Default View list, select the data source for the lookup column.
       d. If you want to limit the rows displayed, select the Only show rows where check box,
        and then select your criteria from the list, and then select OK.
      2. If you have a nested grid, select the pencil button for Nested grid view, and then select
       the table and view for the nested grid. For the Nested grid parent ID select the
       relationship for the tables. For example, the ParentAccountID column connects the
       Account and Contact tables.
        ７ Note
        Nested grids are only available for phones and tablets, not the web.
       3. If you don't want to allow the user to group data by any column in the view (you want to
        save space, for example), in the Group by Column row, select the pencil button, and then
        in the Configure Property "Group by Column" dialog box, select Disabled, and then
        select OK.
          Tip
         This is mostly useful for sub-grids on forms.
       4. If you want to add JavaScript events, select the Events tab, and then select the
        appropriate tables, columns, and events. More information: Developer Documentation:
        Use editable grids
       5. To save your changes, select Save on the action bar.
       6. When you're ready to make changes available to your team, select Publish on the action
        bar.
       7. To test your changes, go to the view you specified in the previous step, and then make
        some in-line editing changes.
     Make a subgrid on a form editable using classic
     solution explorer
       ７ Note
            To save an editable grid change within a sub-grid, the user must explicitly save before
            navigating out of the form.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Solutions, and then open the solution you want. If the item isn’t in the side panel
              pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Select the Table within the solution, and then select the Forms area. Open the Main Form
              that contains the subgrid.
            4. On the form designer command bar, select ... > Switch to classic. This action opens a new
              tab in your browser.
            5. Select the appropriate control, and then select Change Properties on the ribbon.
            6. In the Set Properties dialog box, select Controls.
            7. Select Add Control, select Editable Grid, and then select Add.
            8. In the Editable Grid row that's added, select the client types you want to apply the grid
              to. This makes the editable grid control the default control for the selected form factor.
              For most instances, select Web.
       9. Select Save, and then select Publish.
      Editable grids support
         In-line editing of rows at the table or subgrid level (includes custom tables).
         System views and personal views.
         Web and mobile clients.
         Navigation with a keyboard or mouse.
         Grouping and sorting (you can group by/sort rows on the client-side by any column in
         the current view).
         Filtering.
         Moving and resizing columns.
         Pagination.
         Lookup configuration.
         Calculated columns and rollup columns.
         Business rules (Show error message, Set column value, Set business required, Set default
         value, Lock, or unlock column).
         JavaScript events.
         Enabling or disabling of cells based on security role.
         Users can continue to use search and charts, and can access the action bar as with read-
         only grids.
      Supported standard tables
                                                   ﾉ
                                                     Expand table
           Web/tablet/phone                    Tablet/phone only                 Web only
           Account                             Activity                          Campaign
           Appointment                         Attachment                        Campaign Activity
           Bookable Resource                   Channel Access Profile Rule Item  Campaign Response
           Bookable Resource Booking           Competitor Address                Channel Access Profile
           Bookable Resource Booking Header    Connection                        Channel Access Profile Rule
           Bookable Resource Category          Connection Role                   Contract
           Bookable Resource Category Assn     Email Signature                   Entitlement Template
           Bookable Resource Characteristic    Email Template                    External Party
           Bookable Resource Group             Expired Process                   Fax
           Booking Status                      Invoice Product                   Letter
           Case                                Knowledge Article Incident        Marketing List
           Category                            Lead To Opportunity Sales         Position
           Characteristic                      Process                           Quick Campaign
           Competitor                          Mailbox                           Recurring Appointment
           Contact                             New Process                       Sales Literature
           Email                               Note                              SLA
           Entitlement                         Opportunity Product
           Feedback                            Opportunity Sales Process
           Invoice                             Order Product
           Knowledge Article                   Organization
           Knowledge Article Views             Phone to Case Process
           Knowledge Base Record               Price List Item
           Lead                                Queue Item
           Opportunity                         Quote Product
           Web/tablet/phone                    Tablet/phone only                 Web only
           Order                               Sharepoint Document
           Phone Call                          Translation Process
           Price List
           Product
           Queue
           Quote
           Rating Model
           Rating Value
           SLA KPI Instance
           Social Activity
           Social Profile
           Sync Error
           Task
           Team
           User
          Limitations
          Data types that aren't editable in an editable grid
          The following data types aren't editable in editable grids: Customer and Partylist Lookup
          columns; Composite (address) columns; State/Status columns; Lookup table-related columns
          (for example, the Account table includes a contact lookup, where the Contact column is
          editable but the EmailAddress(Contact) column isn't editable).
          Group by views work on client side only
      Grouping behavior works only on the client side and doesn't span pages. Group by is a client
      only function and works only on one page of data. Group by doesn't show you all options
      based on your complete data set on the server. Group by shows grouping only on the current
      page. You can disable the grouping by using the property on custom control configuration.
      More information: Make a subgrid on a form editable using classic solution explorer
      Inline grid modifications aren't persisted
      Changes made to the structure of the editable grid from within the grid, such as column
      resizing, column reordering, grouping, filtering, and sorting, will be reset the next time the user
      visits the page. These types of changes aren't saved across sessions or within views.
      Business rules work only if conditional column is a column on
      the grid
      Business rules on an editable grid are supported only if the conditional column is also a column
      on the grid. If the column isn't a column the business rules won’t work. Verify that each column
      referenced in the business rule is also included on the form. Note that business rules on an
      editable grid don't fire if the editable grid is configured on a dashboard.
      Editable grids don't work on phones
      Based on customer feedback, we have removed the editable grid experience from phones.
      When using an editable grid on a phone, you see a read-only version of the list control.
      Duplicate rows in a dataset might not be displayed in the grid
      If the dataset displayed in the grid contains duplicate rows, the duplicates might not display in
      the grid. This can lead to the reported record count showing more records than are actually in
      the grid, or more records appearing when exporting the data to Excel or viewing the data in
      legacy Advanced Find.
      Next steps
      Setting managed properties for views
      Keyboard shortcuts for editable grids (views)
       Last updated on 02/27/2026
         Model-driven app managed properties for
         views
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
         When you create a custom public view for a table in Power Apps that's included in a managed
         solution, there's the option to limit the ability of anyone who is installing the solution from
         customizing the view.
         Additionally, there are high-level options that you can set on the table that apply to all views.
         By default, most views have their Customizable managed property set to true so that people
         can customize them. Unless there's a good reason to change this, we recommend you allow
         people to customize views in the table.
         Set managed properties for all views
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Solutions, and then open the solution you want. If the item isn’t in the side panel
              pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Open the table you want. Select Advanced, and then select Managed properties on the
              command bar.
            4. There are a range of options relevant to the current table to either prevent any
              customizations or to prevent the creation of new views.
       5. Make any necessary changes and when finished, select Done.
       ７ Note
       The setting doesn't take effect until the solution is exported from the development
       environment and imported as a managed solution into another environment.
     Set managed properties for a view (classic)
     With this approach, the ability for the view to be changed can be set at the level of the
     individual view.
       1. Open solution explorer, expand Entities, select the table required, and then select Views.
       2. Select a custom public view.
       3. On the command bar, select More Actions > Managed Properties.
       4. Set the Customizable or Can Be Deleted options to True or False.
      Next steps
      Specifying a default view
      Last updated on 02/13/2026
        Specify read only grid properties
        Article • 04/19/2023
        Model-driven apps use responsive design principles to provide an optimal viewing and
        interaction experience for any screen size or orientation. As the size of the screen or the
        container decreases—for example, on phones and smaller viewports—the grid is
        transformed into a list.
        The Read Only Grid control specifies how a grid should respond to different screen sizes.
        As an app maker working with a model-driven app, you can configure the Read Only
        Grid control and its properties for custom grids and lists.
           Card Form property: Use a card form for lists instead of the default list template.
           Card forms provide more information for list items than the default list template.
           Reflow behavior property: Use this parameter to specify a grid to reflow in to a list
           or not.
        Allow grid to reflow into list
        Configure the following features after you add the Read Only Grid control to a table:
           Allow a grid to reflow into a list on small displays such as mobile.
           Specify the rendering mode as grid-only or list-only.
         1. Go to Power Apps
         2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane. Alternatively, select Solutions, and then
           open the solution. If the item isn’t in the left navigation pane, select …More and
           then select the item you want.
         3. Open the table, such as Account.
         4. Select the Forms area, and select the form that you want to edit.
         5. Select Switch to classic. The classic form editor opens as a new tab in your
           browser. (You may need to select ... before selecting Switch to classic.)
         6. In the navigation pane expand Entities, select the table (such as Account or
           Contact), and then on the Controls tab, select Add Control.
       7. Select Read Only Grid from the list of controls, and then choose Add.
        The control is added to the list of available controls.
       8. Select the devices (Web, Phone, or Tablet) for which you want to make the grid
        read-only.
       9. Configure the Card Form property.
        You can use the Card Form property to show list items instead of the default list
        template. Card forms provide more information for list items than the default list
        template does.
        a. Choose the pencil icon next to Card Form.
        b. Select the Entity and Card Form types.
                     c. Choose OK.
                 10. Configure the Reflow behavior property.
                     a. Choose the pencil icon next to Reflow behavior.
                     b. Select the grid flow type from Bind to static options drop down.
                      Flow        Description
                      Type
                      Reflow      Allows the grid to render into list mode depending when there is not enough
                                  display space.
                      Grid        Restricts the grid to reflow into list even when there is not enough display
                      Only        space.
                      List Only   Displays only as a list even when there is enough space to display as grid.
           c. Choose OK.
         11. Save and publish the changes.
        Conditional image
        You can display a custom icon instead of a value in a list and establish the logic used to
        select them based on a column’s values by using JavaScript. For more information about
        conditional images, see Display custom icons instead of values in list views.
        Known issue
        If the dataset displayed in the grid contains duplicate rows, the duplicates might not
        display in the grid. This can lead to the reported record count showing more records
        than are actually in the grid, or more records appearing when exporting the data to
        Excel or viewing the data in legacy Advanced Find. This behavior applies to all grid
        controls, not just the Read-only grid control.
        Next steps
        Model-driven app views overview
             Specify a default view for a table
             Article • 02/23/2023
             Unless someone has 'pinned' a different view in your app as their personal default, they
             will see the default view specified by the app maker. Any of the public views can be set
             as the default view for a table.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the left navigation
                  pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
                3. Open the solution where the table is located.
                4. Open the table, and then select the Views area.
                5. Select More commands       next to the view, and then select Set as default view.
                  This can also be set on the command bar.
               ７ Note
               You can also specify the views that can be displayed in a model-driven app using
               the model-driven app designer. More information: Manage views and charts
             Set the default view for a table in solution
             explorer
        1. Open solution explorer, expand Entities, select the table that you want, and then
          select Views.
        2. Select one of the public views.
        3. On the menu bar, select More Actions > Set Default.
        4. On the solution explorer toolbar, select Publish All Customizations.
       Next steps
       Delete or deactivate a view
    Manage access to public system views
    Admins can manage the views that users can access in model-driven apps by using security
    roles. When a user plays a model-driven app, they only have access to the system views that
    apply to the security roles they're assigned.
    System views are special views that model-driven apps depend on, which exist for system
    tables or are automatically created when you create custom tables. These views have specific
    purposes and some additional capabilities. By default, all system views are for everyone. When
    a Power Platform admin manages a view with a security role, only the users who are assigned
    with the selected security role are able to see the view in the view selector. The other system
    views aren't filtered from the view selector dropdown list. Users can still access all the views
    when they navigate to the Manage and share views option.
    After a Power Platform admin turns on the manage table list views feature, users can set their
    own default view from the list of views that the admin manages and their own personal views
    from the Manage and share views option in a model-driven app.
     Data access continues to be secured with security role privileges, which means only records
     that a user has access to are displayed by the views. Having access to a particular view doesn’t
     mean you also have access to the data that's available in the view.
       ７ Note
       This feature filters views that appear in the table list view selector. All system and
       associated views continue to display in subgrids and associated grids that have a view
       selector.
     Prerequisites
        Confirm that the orgdbsettings `EnableRoleBasedSystemViews' property is set to true
        using the OrganizationSettingsEditor tool.
        System administrator security role membership in the Microsoft Dataverse environment.
        Turning on auditing is recommended, but not required.
      System views in a Dataverse environment
      System views are predefined views that exist for all system tables. These views can include
      Public, Quick Find, Advanced Find, Associated, or Lookup. When an admin or maker creates a
      view from Power Apps (make.powerapps.com), the view becomes a public view. You can
      manage public views with security roles.
      Commonly used public view examples
      You can manage the table list of views with your business users based on the users’ security
      role assignment. Admins select the applicable system views and manage these views with
      security roles. When the user navigates to a table list form, they can access the system views
      that were managed with the security roles that are assigned to them. The selected system
      views with security role aren't visible to users who don't have the security role assigned.
      Examples of public views:
                                                    ﾉ
                                                      Expand table
      Table     Public view
      Account   My Active Accounts
      Account   Accounts: No Campaign Activities in Last 3 months
      Lead      My Open Leads
      Lead      All Leads
      Case      All Cases
      Case      Cases I follow
      Case      My Cases
      Case      My Resolved cases
      Contact   All Contacts
      Contact   Contact I follow
      Contact   Inactive contacts
      Turn on manage table list views
            1. Make sure you enable the table list views feature in your environment. More information:
              Prerequisites
            2. You manage public views with security roles. If you need to create new security roles, go
              to Security roles and privileges for more information about security roles.
            3. Create a solution and add the tables and their corresponding views that you manage.
            4. Export the solution.
            5. Import the solution into your production environment.
             Tip
            Inform your users that their system views are now filtered based on their security role
            assignment.
         Manage public views with security roles
         All system views can be managed with security roles. Once they’re managed, users with the
         assigned security roles only view these views in the view selector.
            ７ Note
            System views are denoted as Public view type in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com). Only
            public views can be managed. Default public views can’t be assigned security roles for
            access.
         Manage system views with security roles
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Solutions, and then open the solution that has the
              table with the view you want to manage. If the item isn't in the side panel, select ...More
              and then select the item you want.
            3. Open a table, such as the account table, and then select the Views area.
            4. Select the nondefault public view that you want, and then on the command bar, select
              View settings.
            5. Select the Specific security roles option.
            6. Select the security roles that you want to assign to the public view.
      7. When you're done selecting the security roles, select Save and Publish.
     ７ Note
     When you make changes to the 'EnableRoleBasedSystemViews' and View settings:
       1. Setting the OrganizationSettingsEditor tool EnableRoleBasedSystemViews property to
        true is effective immediately.
       2. Setting a view with security roles is effective immediately after you select Save and
        publish.
       3. Changing a view setting from 'Specify security role' to 'Everyone' can take up to 24
        hours to be effective or until the user signs out and back in.
     If you select multiple views and go to the view settings, only the first selected Views can
     be updated. You're required to select individual view to update the view settings.
     ） Important
     The security roles as listed under View settings are from the root business unit. Business
     unit level security roles are inherited from the root business unit. When you select the
     security roles from View settings, the system automatically applies filtering to users who
     are assigned the corresponding business unit level security roles.
    Related articles
    Create or edit a model-driven app view in Power Apps
      ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 04/06/2026
             Delete or turn off a model-driven app
             view
             Article • 10/09/2024
             Views allow the data in Microsoft Dataverse tables to be presented in a way that meets a
             business need at a given time.
             The views that are required in an organization might change over time. It's good
             practice to maintain views in order to keep your model-driven apps as simple as
             possible to use and maintain.
             System views versus public views
             Depending on the type of view, you can either turn it off or delete it. Turned off views
             can be turned on again, while the deletion of a view is permanent.
                  Custom table public views can both be deleted and turned off/on. Public views
                  that are standard with Dataverse, such as the active accounts and inactive accounts
                  standard public views can be turned off/on.
                  System views can't be deleted or turned off/on. This includes public views created
                  by the system.
             Turn on or turn off views
             Custom public views can be turned off and these turned off views can be turned on.
             While a view is turned off, the view isn't available in the associated model-driven apps
             for users to select. Public views set as the default view for the table can't be turned off.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  , open the environment you want, select Solutions on the
                  left navigation pane, and then open the unmanaged solution you want.
                2. Open the table you want, and then select the Views area under Data experiences.
                3. Select the view you want to turn on or off, and then select either Turn off or Turn
                  on on the command bar.
             Delete a view
             Deleting a view permanently removes it from the environment.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  , open the environment you want, select Solutions on the
                  left navigation pane, and then open the unmanaged solution you want.
                2. Open the table you want, and then select the Views area under Data experiences.
                3. Select the view you want to remove, and then select Remove > Delete from this
                  environment on the command bar.
               ７ Note
                    Where a model-driven app specifies a view this creates a dependency
                    between the app and the view. If this is the case the view will need to first be
                    removed from the app using the app designer.
                    If the view has been added to more than one solution, you can select Remove
                    > Remove from this solution to remove from the solution but keep available
                    in the environment.
             Delete or activate and deactivate views in
             classic solution explorer
             Delete a view in classic solution explorer
             You can delete any custom public view. Use the steps in Access view definitions to find
             the view you want to delete and use the   Delete command. Once you verify that you
             really want to delete it, the view is permanently deleted.
             Deactivate or activate views in classic solution explorer
                1. Navigate to System Views as described in Access view definitions.
                2. Select a public view. To see inactive views, use the Inactive Public Views view.
                3. On the menu bar, select More Actions, and then select either Deactivate or
                  Activate.
                4. Select Publish All Customizations.
             Next steps
             Views overview
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Create and design model-driven app forms
     With Power Apps model-driven apps, forms provide the user interface that people use to
     interact with the data they need to do their work. It's important that the forms people use are
     designed to allow them to find or enter the information they need efficiently.
     In the default solution or an unmanaged solution, it's possible to create new forms or edit
     existing forms for all tables that allow form customization.
     Model-driven app form UI enhancements
     Form UI enhancements consist of multiple small changes to improve data presentation and
     usability of model-driven app forms:
       Forms have a light gray background, which removes the white-on-white section
       treatment that helps users by providing easier visual navigation.
       There's a better delineation between sections as white space is reduced and shadow and
       rounded corners to borders are added.
       Form field dividers are removed and consistent font styling is used across section labels.
       The Related tab has an added chevron to indicate the dropdown flyout, which opens-ups
       when you select it.
                                                   
     Also, quick view form labels are displayed on top instead of icons.
                                                   
     Forms and solutions
     This section describes form customization when the form is in an unmanaged or managed
     solution.
     Forms inside unmanaged solutions
     In an unmanaged solution, it's possible to edit the properties, including columns, views, and
     forms, for an unmanaged custom table that was created for the solution. Unmanaged solutions
     are where app makers and developers go to author changes that they require. Unmanaged
     solutions typically exist in a development environment.
     Forms inside managed solutions
     In a managed solution, typically in a production environment, it isn't possible by default to
     create new forms or edit existing forms for tables. However, if the managed properties for a
     table in the managed solution are set to allow customization, you can add or edit forms for
     that table.
     Learn more about solutions
     Form types
     There are different types of forms, and each type has a specific functionality or use. Here are
     the form types:
        Main. The main user interface.
        Quick create. For rapid data entry.
        Quick view. Used to see related data.
        Card form. Shows a compact display of the form.
     More information: Types of forms in Power Apps.
     Create or edit a form
     The fundamentals of building a model-driven app include creating a table, configuring data
     views, and creating and editing forms.
     Before you begin to build forms, it's worth determining whether you have all the columns
     necessary to solve your business problem. Additionally, you should have an understanding how
     to organize columns by using sections and tabs. Broadly speaking, the complexity of your
     forms are a reflection of the number of columns in your table in addition to the complexity of
     your business process.
     Learn to create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer
     Delete a form
     To delete a form, sign in to Power Apps and go to Solutions > Open the solution you want >
     select the table that you want > Forms area. Select the form, and then select Delete on the
     command bar.
     There are a couple of reasons you might not be able to delete a form.
                                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
            Reason                                Work around
            Every table requires at least one     Create a new main form for the table. Then delete the main form you
            main form and it's the only main      tried earlier. More information: Create a form
            form for the table.
            Every table requires one              Create a new form for the table and set it as the fallback. Or designate
            designated fallback form and it's     another existing form as the fallback form. Then delete the form you
            the only fallback form.               tried earlier. More information: Set the fallback form for a table
           Controlling the display of a form within an app
           Tables can have multiple forms. The use of a form is controlled through the model-driven app.
           This control allows makers to use the same table in different ways depending on the audience,
           by controlling the display.
           By default all forms are made available to users. However, through the app designer a specific
           form can be restricted.
           Change the forms displayed and form order
           Makers change the forms displayed in an app from the app designer. More information: Add or
           remove forms from an app
           Makers can also change the form order, fallback forms, and the default form for a table from
           the Forms area. More information: Set the form order
           Updated versus classic tables
           Power Apps provides many options for designing forms using the form designer.
           There are still a number of tables, referred to here as classic tables, that retain the appearance
           and capabilities from earlier versions. These tables are used less often. They're listed here:
           Address
           Article
           Article Comment
           Bulk Delete Operation
    Connection
    Discount
    Discount List
    Document Location
    Email Attachment
    Follow
    Goal
    Goal Metric
    Import Source File
    Invoice Product
    Order Product
    Price List
    Queue Item
    Quote Product
    Rollup Field
    Rollup Query
    Saved View
    Service
    Service Activity
    SharePoint Site
    Site
    Territory
    Unit
      Unit Group
      Main form dialogs
      With the client API, you can use main form dialogs so users can open a related row table on a
      parent or base form without navigating away from the form. More information: Open main
      form in a dialog using client API
      Next steps
      Understanding the form types available
      Assign form order
      Control access to forms
      How main forms appear in different clients
      Last updated on 03/12/2026
          Types of model-driven app forms in Power
          Apps
               Summarize this article for me
          ﾃ
          There are different types of forms and each type has a specific functionality or use. This table
          describes the types of forms available.
                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
            Form       Description                                                         More information
            type
            Main       Used in model-driven apps, Dynamics 365 for tablets, and            Design considerations
                       Dynamics 365 for Outlook.                                           for main forms
                       These forms provide the main user interface for viewing and
                       interacting with table data.
            Quick      Used in model-driven apps, Dynamics 365 for tablets, and            Create and edit quick
            Create     Dynamics 365 for Outlook.                                           create forms
                       These forms provide a basic form optimized for creating new
                       records.
            Quick      Used in model-driven apps, Dynamics 365 for tablets, and            Create and edit quick
            View       Dynamics 365 for Outlook.                                           view forms
                       These forms appear within the main form to display additional
                       data for a row that is referenced by a lookup column in the form.
                       Users can view data from related tables without having to leave
                       the form.
            Card       Used in views for model-driven apps. Card forms are designed to     Create a card form
                       present information in a compact format that is suitable for mobile
                       devices.
          While each form type has specific needs, when designing forms you use the form editor. More
          information: Overview of the form editor user interface
          Form examples
          Here are examples of each form type.
   Main form
   Quick create
   Quick view
   Card
      Next steps
      Overview of the form editor user interface
      Last updated on 02/13/2026
             How model-driven app main forms
             appear on different devices
             Article • 04/20/2022
             There are four types of form. Main, quick view, quick create, and card.
             The main form is a fundamental building block of any model-driven app and is used by
             all devices used to run them.
             A main form can be rendered using a web browser, Dynamics 365 for phones, Dynamics
             365 for tablets, or Dynamics 365 for Outlook, and its design adjusts to accommodate
             the device. This responsive design is an important feature of model-driven apps.
             Additionally, the main form is an intrinsic part of the table and it travels with the table as
             part of any solution. This helps with application lifecycle management.
             Learn more about all the form types
             Notes on Microsoft Dynamics 365
             Main form presentation options
             Any main forms that exist for a table may be displayed differently depending on the
             factors in the following table below. When you design a main form, consider how it
             works in each presentation tool.
              Presentation   Description
              Current        Most of the standard tables and all custom tables created use the current form,
                             which provides a modern user experience. The current forms have a layout with
                             an improved command bar design, and support features such as AutoSave and
                             business process flows.
              Dynamics       Dynamics 365 for tablets presents the content of the main form in a manner
              365 for        optimized for a tablet.
              tablets
              Dynamics       Dynamics 365 for phones presents the content of the main form in a manner
              365 for        optimized for a phone.
              phones
              Presentation   Description
              Classic        Classic forms are from earlier versions of Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement
                             apps. They use the ribbon rather than the command bar and the navigation pane
                             on the left side of the form. 
                             These forms have a two-column layout. Notice that there are a few tables that still
                             use the classic forms. More information: Updated verses classic tables
             This diagram represents common components found in main table forms.
             The layout of the form works with a wide range of displays and window sizes. As the
             width of window decreases, section columns move down so that you can scroll down to
             work with them instead of being compressed or requiring you to scroll to the right.
             The image below illustrate the accounts table main form as it would be viewed through
             a web browser.
                                                                                                  
             The following table summarizes available components of the main form for tables.
              Component Summary
              Navigation    In the context of the table, the navigation bar provides access to managing
              bar           records, such as search, create, and advanced find.
              Command       The first several commands are displayed followed by a vertical ellipsis that
              bar           provides a menu to choose additional commands.
              Image         When a table has an image column and the table Primary Image option is set to
                            Default Image, an image can be displayed in the header when the form is
                            configured to show the image.
              Header        Columns placed in the header remain visible when people scroll down through the
                            body of the form. 
                            Up to four columns can be placed in the header. Multiple lines of text, web
                            resources, or iFrames aren’t allowed in the header. The header shares some
                            properties with sections.
              Process       When a table has active business process flows, the process control displays below
              Control       the header. More information: Business process flows
              Body          The body is the scrollable part of the form that contains the sections.
              Tabs          In the body of the form, tabs provide horizontal separation. Tabs have a label that
                            can be displayed. Tabs contain up to three columns and the width of each column
                            can be set to a percentage of the total width. When you create a new tab, each
                            column is prepopulated with a section.
              Sections      A section occupies the space available in a tab column. Sections have a label that
                            can be displayed and a line may be shown below the label. 
                            Sections can have up to four columns and include options for displaying how
                            labels for columns in the section are displayed.
              Columns       Section columns display fields and controls people use to view or edit data in a
                            table record. A section can be formatted to occupy up to four columns within the
                            section.
              Spacer        A spacer allows for an empty space to be added to a section column.
              Sub-grids     Subgrids allow for the display of a list within the form.
              Quick View    A quick view form displays data from a record referenced by a lookup column on
              Form          the form. The table that is the target of the lookup must have a quick view form
                            before one can be added to the form. More information: Create and edit quick
                            view forms
              Component Summary
              Web          HTML and Microsoft Silverlight web resources can be added to main forms but
              Resources    they won’t be displayed when using Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets.
              iFrame       An inline-frame that you configure to show a webpage from another website.
                           Important:
                                 When the page displayed in an iFrame is on another domain, browsers apply
                                 a higher level of security. This may complicate the requirements for the
                                 contents of an iFrame to interact with data in the form.
                                 Displaying a table form within an iFrame embedded in another table form
                                 isn't supported.
              Bing Maps    When this control is present in a form for a table and the system setting Enable
                           Bing Maps is enabled with a valid Bing Maps key, this control can be used one
                           time in a form to show the location for one of the addresses in a table. More
                           information: Configuring Bing maps
             Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets forms
             Most system tables and custom tables are available for Dynamics 365 for phones and
             tablets. The main form for these tables is transformed to a presentation optimized for
             phones or tablets.
             Tables enabled for Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets
             Only tables that are enabled for Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets use this
             presentation of the main form. More information: Entities displayed in Dynamics 365 for
             phones and tablets
             Form design
             Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets takes many of the main form elements and
             presents them in a way optimized for phones or tablets. The following diagrams show
             the reflow from the web app to the tablet and phone apps.
             Web app
      Tablet app
      Phone app
      The form elements are transformed to a wide panorama layout in Dynamics 365 for
      tablets, where users swipe the screen to change elements visible within a view port. In
      Dynamics 365 for phones, users swipe the screen to see a different column, or pane of
      elements, and the process control appears over every column.
      View port element
      The following items are always visible within the view port in the context of a form:
      Nav bar 
      The nav bar is a presentation of the sitemap that is optimized for touch. More
      information: Change navigation options
      Home 
      The home button takes users to the dashboard that is the starting page for Dynamics
      365 for phones and tablets.
      Process Control 
      If the table has a business process enabled, it will appear in the top-right corner next to
      the search control in Dynamics 365 for tablets, and at the top of the screen in Dynamics
      365 for phones.
      Search 
      People can tap the search control to open the screen to search for records.
      Command Bar 
      By default, some of the commands that appear in the app running in a web browser
      don't appear in the Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets apps. Similar to the web
      application, the command bar is context-sensitive, so the available commands change
      depending on what is currently viewed or selected. More information Change
      commands
       Form elements
       The form elements displayed are taken from the main form and presented as a series of
       panels that users see through the view port.
       In Dynamics 365 for tablets, the first panel displays contact information about
       relationships that exist for the record. In Dynamics 365 for phones, the first panel also
       displays header columns from the form above the relationship tiles.
       For Contact and User forms, the top item displays a communication card for the record.
       The communication card provides buttons to initiate communication with the person.
       For other tables, a communication card is displayed if there's a Contact quick view form
       embedded in the main form.
       You can show additional tiles based on table relationships, but you can’t customize the
       tiles for the following tables:
        Entity             Tiles
        Account            Owner
        Contact            Company Name, Owner
        Lead               Owner
        Opportunity        Account, Owner
       You can customize the remaining tiles with the form editor. The order is fixed, but you
       can set which elements are visible in the relationship panel.
      In Dynamics 365 for tablets, the second panel begins with the name of the first tab on
      the form. Any columns that are included within the header are included and then the
      contents of the first tab. In Dynamics 365 for phones, headers appear in the first column.
      If there is a process flow active for the form, the third tab displays tasks for the current
      stage of the process in Dynamics 365 for tablets. In Dynamics 365 for phones, the
      process control floats above the panes, expands over the user’s current pane when it’s
      selected, and is always visible and actionable.
      The remaining panels of the form contain the contents of the tabs in the form. Any
      subgrids found display as a separate panel.
      The Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets form always displays the labels for tabs and
      subgrids. The Display Label on the Form setting isn't applied.
       ７ Note
       To optimize performance on mobile devices, the number of objects is limited to 5
       tabs or 75 columns and 10 subgrids.
      Forms for Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets don’t support the following features:
        Bing maps
        Yammer
                   Activity feeds
                   Theming
             In addition, table images are visible in list views and contact cards, but not within the
             actual form.
             Multiple forms
             Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets supports multiple forms but doesn't provide a way
             for people to switch between forms if they can access more than one. People will see
             the first form in the form order that they have access to.
             For example, if you have the following main forms for the opportunity table and have
             assigned the following security roles for each one, you’ll see the form order shown in
             the following table.
              Form Order          Form Name                  Security roles
              1                   Sales Form One             Salesperson
              2                   Sales Form Two             Salesperson and Sales Manager
              3                   Sales Form Three           Sales Manager
              4                   Sales Form Four            Vice President of Sales
                   People with the Salesperson role will always see Sales Form One.
                   People with the Sales Manager role will always see Sales Form Two.
                   People with the Vice President of Sales role will always see Sales Form Four.
             Classic forms
             For information about the classic forms available with Dynamics 365 Customer
             Engagement (on-premises), see Classic forms.
             Next steps
             Create or edit a main form overview
      Design considerations for model-driven
      app main forms
        Summarize this article for me
      ﾃ
      Main forms are the primary user interface where people view and interact with their data. Main
      forms provide the widest range of presentation options that are available for model-driven
      apps.
      Other form types include Quick view, Quick Create, and Card.
      A fundamental quality of model-driven apps is that they're responsive to the size and type of
      device used when interacting with them. This responsiveness affects the position of the
      controls on the form and the way in which they behave. This quality is most notable with main
      forms.
      One of the main design objectives for main forms is that they are designed once per table and
      deployed everywhere required.
      There are several important factors to consider in designing forms for model-driven apps.
      Custom forms for different groups
      Because multiple main forms can be created and assigned to different security roles, it's
      possible to present different groups in an organization with a form that is optimized for how
      the group uses the application. It's also possible to provide each group with different options
      so that they have different forms to choose from. More information: Control access to forms
      Managers and decisions makers want forms that are optimized to provide quick reference to
      key data points. They often like to see charts more than lists and they might not perform a lot
      of data entry.
      People who interact directly with customers need forms tailored to tasks they perform most
      frequently. They often want forms that allow for the most efficient data entry.
      Form creation might be an iterative process where input is gathered and the user interface is
      developed. Keep in mind that there are a variety of tools available to developers and that not
      everything has to be done within the form. Use business rules, workflow processes, dialogs,
      and business process flows together with main forms to provide a solution that works for the
      organization.
      Creating and editing forms is relatively easy, but as more forms are created more forms need
      to be maintained.
     Form presentation differences
     Although it isn't necessary to manage multiple forms for each delivery mechanism (web, tablet,
     phone), a maker must consider how differences in the presentation can be accounted for in the
     main form.
     Main form appearance describes the different ways that the main form can be presented. The
     primary things to take into consideration are:
        Dynamics 365 for tablets doesn’t support image, HTML, or Silverlight web resources to be
        added to forms.
        The layout of Dynamics 365 for tablets forms is autogenerated based on the main form.
        There is no special form editor for Dynamics 365 for tablets forms. It is necessary to verify
        that the form presentation works well for both clients.
        If there are unsupported scripts that interact with DOM elements found in the web
        application, those scripts won’t work in the Dynamics 365 for tablets forms because the
        same DOM elements aren’t available.
        Dynamics 365 for Outlook Reading Pane forms don’t allow for scripting. The visibility of
        form elements depend on the default settings and can’t be changed at runtime using
        scripts.
     Form performance
     Forms that load slowly or don’t respond quickly might affect productivity and user adoption of
     the app. Design forms for performance in model-driven apps provides a number of
     recommendations to consider when you design forms so that customizations don’t adversely
     affect form performance.
     Design forms for efficiency
     Form layout and design are important to building better forms. Designing forms where tasks
     can be completed quickly and effectively is crucial to user satisfaction. More information:
     Design productive main forms in model-driven apps
     Next steps
     Create or edit a main form overview
      Last updated on 02/13/2026
         Create or edit a model-driven app main
         form for a table
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
         This article describes how to create or edit a main form for a table.
         When a new form is created for a table, its form type is Main. When the new form opens, it is
         identical to the form named Information. Columns, sections, tabs, navigation, and properties
         associated with the form can be edited and the form can then be saved.
         Each main form is composed of one or more tabs. Each tab can have one or more sections.
         Each section contains one or more columns, also called form fields. Forms can be cloned to
         provide a simpler starting point for form development. To clone a form, open the form you
         want to copy in the form editor, on the command bar select Save a copy, enter a Display
         Name and optionally a Description, and then select Save.
            ７ Note
            Make sure that you have the System Administrator or System Customizer security role or
            equivalent permissions within your environment to perform this task.
         How to create or edit a main form
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane, select the table you want, and then select the
              Forms area. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item
              you want.
            3. To create a new main form, on the toolbar select Newform > Main form > Create.
            4. Change the form design in any of the following ways, as needed:
                    Add a column to or remove a column from a form
                    Add a section to or remove a section from a form
                    Add a tab to or remove a tab from a form
                    Add or edit a subgrid on a form
                    Edit form headers
                    Edit form footers
            5. Edit the properties for parts of the form, as needed:
             Edit form properties
             Edit form column properties
             Edit tab properties
             Edit section properties
        6. When you finish editing the form and are ready to make it available in apps, select Save
         and publish.
      Next steps
      Create and edit a main form walkthrough
       Last updated on 02/13/2026
             Create and customize a model-driven
             app form
             Article • 03/13/2023
             In model-driven Power Apps, forms provide the user interface that people use to
             interact with the data with which they need to work. A table can have one or more
             forms, and forms come in different types. The different types are main, quick create,
             quick view, and card. For more information about form types, see Type of model-driven
             app forms in Power Apps.
             In this tutorial, you create a main type form and then add the form to a model-driven
             app. The main form is the primary form type that users see when they open records in
             model-driven apps.
             Main forms have a default three-column layout. Model-driven form fields and
             components are grouped into tabs (primary grouping) and sections (secondary
             grouping). Tabs separate the form into logical pages, while sections separate the content
             within a tab.
             Create and configure a form
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Tables. If the item isn’t in the left navigation pane, select …More and then
                  select the item you want.
                3. Open the Account table, and then select the Forms area.
                4. Select Add Form from the command bar, and then select Main Form.
               5. The form designer opens to enable you to configure the properties for the form.
              Property    Description
              Title       Enter a name that is meaningful to other makers and app users. This name is shown
                          to app users. If users have access to multiple forms for a table, they will use this
                          name to differentiate between the available forms. This property is required.
              Description Enter a description that explains how the form is different from other main forms.
                          This description is only shown to makers in the form designer and in the list of
                          forms for a table in the solution explorer.
              Max Width   Set a maximum width (in pixels) to limit the width of the form. The default value is
                          1900. This property is required.
              Show        Show the table’s Primary Image if it has one set. This setting will enable showing
              image       the image column in the header of the form. For more information about table
                          options, see Enable or disable table options .
      Change the tab layout
      If you wish to use a different layout than the default three columns in a tab, follow these
      steps:
       1. Select the tab name, such as Summary.
       2. In the Properties pane on right, select the Formatting area to expand it.
       3. Select the Layout drop-down list, and then select your desired layout, such as 1
        column or 2 columns.
      Add items to the form
      Using the left side panel in the form designer, you can add different items to the form
      depending on which tab you select.
      Components
      From this tab you can add new form tabs, sections, or visual controls. More information:
      Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
      Table columns
      From this tab you can add form fields, also called table columns. More information: Add,
      configure, move, or delete columns on a form
      Tree view
      From this tab you can select to navigate to the form header, footer, or any tab or section
      on the form. This is useful when configuring forms with many tabs. More information:
      Using the tree view in the form designer
      Form libraries
      Model-driven forms allow you to add JavaScript libraries to further extend your form
      behavior.
      Exercise: Add a new section and fields to the form
      By default, the account form includes a single address section. However, the account
      table also includes a second address set. In cases where you need to track shipping and
      billing addresses, it's common to add the second address set to the form. Follow these
      steps to add a new ADDRESS 2 section and associated columns to the form.
       1. Select the Address section of the form in the form designer.
       2. On the left pane of the form designer select the Components tab, and then select
        1 Column Section. A new section is added below the ADDRESS section.
       3. In the right Properties pane, change the Label from New Section to ADDRESS 2. 
       4. On left pane, select the Table columns tab.
       5. With the ADDRESS 2 section still selected, select Address 2: Street 1 from the table
        column list to add the field to the ADDRESS 2 section.
       6. Repeat the previous step to add the following fields:
           Address 2: Street 2
           Address 2: Street 3
           Address 2: City
           Address 2: State/Province
           Address 2: Zip/Postal Code
           Address 2: Country/Region
         ７ Note
         You can also drag and drop fields. This is especially useful when you want to
         move columns to a different area or section.
       7. On the form designer command bar select Save, and then select Publish.
                8. Close the form designer tab in your browser.
             Control which form is visible in your model-
             driven app
             If your app includes multiple model-driven main forms, users can select which form to
             view. If you want to restrict users of your app to only view records with your newly
             configured form, follow these steps.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Go to Apps, select ... next to a model-driven app, such as the Account Tracking app
                  you can create following this article: Build your first model-driven app, and then
                  select Edit.
                3. In app designer, select a form, such as the account main form.
                4. On the right pane, select Manage forms.
                5. Select the forms that you want to display in the app, such as main form, Account
                  Card form, and Account Quick Create. Clear the other forms, such as Account. 
                6. Select Save, and then select Publish to reflect the changes in the app.
             Controlling access to your forms
             We recommend that you select all quick view forms and quick create type forms, unless
             you have specific reasons to not check them. Only select the main form or forms that
             you want users to see. You must also ensure that your new form is enabled for a security
             role that users of the app have been assigned. You can further control how users will
             access forms in an app by configuring the form order and fallback form. For more
             information, see these articles:
                  Set security roles for a form
                  Set the form order
                  Set the fallback form for a table
             View your new form
       Now that you have created and modified a new form, let’s test it out. Follow these steps
       to view your new form:
        1. In app designer, select Play.
        2. Open an account record.
        3. The new main form with the section for ADDRESS 2 is displayed. If your new
          account main form isn't displayed, select main form from the form selector in the
          upper left of the form. 
       Next steps
       Create or edit quick create forms
    Create or edit model-driven app quick
    create forms
    With quick create forms, an app can have a streamlined data entry experience with full support
    for logic defined by form scripts and business rules. In a Power Apps model-driven app, quick
    create forms appear when the Create button is selected in the navigation bar or when + New is
    chosen when creating a new row from a lookup or subgrid.
    Model-driven apps and Dynamics 365 mobile apps use quick create forms for creating new rows.
    If a table already has a quick create form configured for it, the mobile apps use that form. If a
    table doesn't have a configured quick create form, Power Apps generates a quick create form for
    creating rows in the mobile apps based on the main form definition.
    Here's the quick create form for the standard Microsoft Dataverse account table.
      Tables with quick create forms
                                                           1               1
      By default only these system tables have quick create forms: account,  campaign response,  case,
      1               1    1
       competitor, contact,  lead,  opportunity.
      1
       Requires a customer engagement app.
      Although it's possible to create quick create forms for system activity tables (except for the
      appointment table), system activity tables don't support quick create forms. Currently, the option
      to disable the quick create form for the appointment table isn't supported. Any of the other
      updated tables and any custom tables can be enabled to support these forms by selecting Enable
      quick create forms in the table definition and creating a quick create form for the table.
      Custom activity tables that support quick create forms can be enabled, and it's possible to create
      quick create forms for those tables. However, the quick create form for custom activity tables
      aren't used when app users select Create on the navigation bar. These quick create forms can be
      used only when users add a new row for a subgrid that displays that specific custom activity
      table.
      Create a quick create form
      Although you can define multiple quick create forms, only one quick create form can be used by
      everyone. The form everyone uses is set using the form order. Quick create forms can't be
      assigned to security roles and they don't provide the capability for the user to switch forms.
        ７ Note
            The table must have the Enable quick create forms option enabled for the quick create
            form to be available as an option for the table.
            The table must be added to your app.
            Some columns, such as the CREATEDON column, aren't available to add to a quick create
            form.
        How to create a quick create form
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and then open the solution you want. If the
             item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
           3. Select Tables, open the table, and then select the Forms area.
           4. On the toolbar, select New form > Quick create form > Enter a Form name and Form
             description > Create.
           5. In the form designer, drag any columns from the Table columns left pane into the sections
             on the form.
           6. When you're finished, select Save and publish to display the new form in the application.
        Edit a quick create form
        While quick create forms support form scripts and business rules, their purpose is different from
        main forms and they don't support all the capabilities of main forms. Quick create forms always
        have one section with three columns. You can't add more sections or columns.
        The following controls can't be added to quick create forms:
             Subgrids
             Quick view forms
             Web resources
             iFrames
             Notes
             Bing Maps
        If you add a composite column to a quick create form, it's displayed as separate columns.
        To edit a quick create form
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane, and then open the solution you want. If the
             item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
           3. Open the table, and then select the Forms area.
           4. In the form list, select a form where the form Type is Quick create.
           5. Drag any columns from the Table columns left pane into the sections in the form.
        See Configure event handlers for information about editing event handlers for form scripts.
      6. When you're finished, select Save and publish to display the modified form in the
        application.
     Enable quick create form property behavior
     for activities
     The Enable quick create forms property can be enabled or disabled for all standard activities
     except recurring appointments. This property allows the form that is displayed by default for
     most activities to display. By default, the Enable quick create forms property is enabled and the
     quick create form is the form displayed in the app areas and activity tables that support it.
   Unified Interface client form display behavior
      The following table indicates what form is displayed by default when the Enable quick create
      forms property is enabled in the Unified Interface client.
                                                            ﾉ Expand table
      Location where form is accessed                Form displayed
      Specific activity associated grid              Quick create
      Specific activity sub grid                     Quick create
      Activities (activitypointer) grid              Quick create
      Activities (activitypointer) associated grid   Quick create
      Activities (activitypointer) sub grid          Quick create
                         1
      Global command bar + button                    Quick create
      Timeline wall                                  Quick create
      Activities (activitypointer) grid              Main
      Specific activity grid                         Main
      1
      Activities appear in the global Create or + New buttons when the Enable quick create forms
      property is enabled. In this case, the quick create form is used if it exists or the main form if it
      doesn't. If Enable quick create forms is disabled, the entry for the table won't appear.
      Classic web client form display behavior
      The following table indicates what form is displayed by default when the Enable quick create
      forms property is enabled in the classic web client.
                                                            ﾉ Expand table
      Location where form is accessed                Form displayed
      Specific activity associated grid              Quick create
      Specific activity sub grid                     Quick create
      Activities (activitypointer) grid              Main
      Activities (activitypointer) associated grid   Main
      Activities (activitypointer) sub grid          Main
      Location where form is accessed             Form displayed
      Global command bar + button                 Main
      Specific activity grid                      Main
     Classic web client social pane behavior
     The social pane is a special case because it doesn't use the Enable quick create forms property
     but uses different forms for different activity tables as indicated here.
                                                         ﾉ
                                                           Expand table
      Activity                      Form displayed
      Task                          Quick create
      Phone Call                    Quick create
      Email                         Main
      Appointment                   Main
      Custom activity               Main
     Solution import Allow Quick Create value behavior
     When a solution from version 8.2 is imported, regardless of the value of the Enable quick create
     forms property in the solution, the following tables are reset to the default form display value.
     Also, the main form displays: task, phone call, email, and appointment. In this situation, you'll
     need to reset the Enable quick create forms option back to enabled for those activity tables after
     the import.
     If there's a customization made in a version 9.0 solution to tables where Enable quick create
     forms is enabled, the value won't change after import. However, if the Enable quick create forms
     option is set to disabled for the task, phone call, email, and appointment tables, the value is
     overwritten to enabled. In this situation, the Enable quick create forms option needs to be reset
     back to disabled for those activity tables after the import.
       ） Important
          If a quick create form exists for a table but isn't included in the app, the Unified
          Interface runtime will still open the quick create form. This behavior occurs with lookup
