     12. Configure the control properties as required.
     13. Select Done.
     14. Select Save and publish.
    Related information
    Use sensitivity labels in emails
      Last updated on 07/29/2026
     Set up the timeline control
     The timeline helps app users review all activity history. The Timeline control captures activities
     such as notes, appointments, emails, phone calls, and tasks. It tracks interactions for a related
     table over time. Use the timeline to quickly catch up on all of the latest activity details.
     The timeline control provides an easy way to view information related to a table, such as
     accounts or contacts. This immersive experience helps give users a better understanding of their
     customer interactions, and helps them deliver more personalized service in an efficient and
     effective manner.
     App makers can configure the information that appears on the timeline. Users can then access
     information and create activity records, such as emails and tasks, directly from the timeline.
     Add a timeline
     A timeline control is located on a form within a table. Any timeline control on a form can be
     configured. For example, an account table has three standard forms, and each of those forms can
     have a timeline that can be configured.
     Display a custom table in a timeline
        To add custom tables as activities in a timeline, configure the following settings when you create
        the table:
             Set the table Type as Activity.
             Check the Enable attachments setting if you want app users to be able to add attachments
             and notes to the custom activity record.
        Learn more in Create a custom table.
        Add the timeline component to a form
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane, and then open the table you want. If the item isn’t
             in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
           3. Select the Forms area, and then open the form where you want to add or configure a
             timeline.
           4. In the form designer, select Components from the left navigation, and then scroll down to
             the Timeline component on the left side. Drag and drop it into a section on the form.
           5. Make the changes you want to the timeline settings. Learn more in Configure the timeline
             component.
      6. Before you can view any configuration changes on the table form, you must save and
       publish your updates on the timeline component. Select Save, and then select Publish to
       make your form changes available on the table form for the environment.
     Note the following when you work with the timeline control in the form designer.
       You can add multiple timelines to a form.
       To remove the timeline component from a form, select the Timeline component area, and
       then press the Delete key.
       Since the timeline component relies exclusively on underlying related data, Almost there is
       displayed in the timeline section.
       Because you are in a create and/or edit state on the form, there's no underlying data, so the
       timeline section is blank in the form designer.
     Configure the timeline component
     The timeline component is rich in features and functionality that can be configured and tailored
     to support specific business needs. The timeline is composed of features and functionality that
     you configure in the timeline component, which is then displayed in the table form.
     Display options
     This section describes the settings available in the Display options area of the timeline control
     settings.
     Timeline component name
     The Name column under the Properties tab in Display options is the unique name of the
     timeline control and is only used by the app maker to reference.
      ７ Note
         The Name column has limitations. For example, you can't use spaces between words.
         Instead, you must use an underscore (_)
         You can't change the default heading label that is displayed as Timeline on the form
         during app runtime.
     Records shown on page
         This section allows you to control the number of records that appear before displaying Load
         more at the bottom of the section.
                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
          Form designer configuration View                              Form designer display View
          The default setting on the Records shown on page column is    1. Per the default setting shown in this
          set to 10 records, but you can change it to display up to 50  example, the form displays a maximum of
          records.                                                      10 records.
                                                                        2. Once records exceed 10, the Load more
                                                                        option appears at the bottom of the form.
         Record types to show
         There are three primary record types: Activities, notes, and posts. All record types are enabled by
         default.
               Activities. Activities can have a large number of customizable subactivity record types to
               support business needs. Depending on what you install, the administrator can create, add,
               and display many different customized subactivity record types under the Activity section of
               the dropdown menu on the timeline.
               Notes. Notes allow you to capture details related to the table record. For example, you can
               use notes to capture thoughts, summarize information, and provide feedback on a case, and
               then update the case details later.
               Posts There are two types of posts: auto and user:
                  Auto Posts are system-generated posts that notify you of account activity.
                   User Posts allow you to leave a message for another user on a record.
                  ７ Note
                  Posts require a Dynamics 365 app, such as an app for Dynamics 365 Customer Service.
         Enable these record types to be displayed in the timeline
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
           Form designer configuration view           Form designer display view
           To enable Record types shown for           1. To confirm that the record type is displaying on the form,
           Activities, Notes, and Posts on a form,
                                                      select Create a timeline record      in the top-right nav in the
           check the box next to the record type.
                                                      timeline, and a dropdown menu that displays the list of enabled
                                                      record types appears.
                                                      2. When Activities are enabled, the system displays Activity
                                                      record types for appointments, email, phone calls, and tasks.
                                                      3. When Notes are enabled, the system displays the note record
                                                      types on the form.
                                                      4. When Posts are enabled, the post record types display on the
                                                      form.
        ７ Note
        Activities and notes are standard entities. If additional solutions have been imported into the
        environment, other tables may also be displayed.
      Activity, notes, post icons, and date / timestamp display on timelines
      The timeline shows a simple icon before the activity, note, post, and custom table, making it easy
      for you to identify the record type.
      Dates and timestamps always appear on each record on the bottom-right side of the preview,
      and are always viewable.
        ７ Note
        When a custom table has a custom icon, activities related to the custom table are displayed
        using the default custom table icon not the custom icon.
      Advanced
      This section describes the settings available in the Advanced area of the timeline control settings.
      The Advanced settings apply to all record types.
      When enabling and disabling Advanced features, you aren't able to view updates (even though it
      might appear that there's activity occurring on the timeline component) until you save and
      publish your configuration updates and refresh the table form.
      Advanced covers common settings that span across an activity, note, or post, which are the three
      primary record types that appear in the timeline section.
      Quick entry record type and sort order default
      The following is a detailed overview of the Advanced configuration options, starting with
      selecting your Quick entry record type:
                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
          Form designer configuration View                           Form designer display View
          1. Select Advanced to expand this area in the              1. When you select Notes, it displays under the
          configuration view. The Quick entry record type provides   Search bar in the timeline. Also, the system
          you with quick access to create either a Note or a Post.
                                                                     displays the paperclip     icon that allows you
          The default setting for this setting is set to Notes.
                                                                     to attach files. You can only attach files to notes.
          2. The Sort order default setting controls the order of
                                                                     2. If you select Posts, it also displays under the
          how all data is sorted on the timeline. The default setting
                                                                     Search bar in the timeline.
          for this setting is set to Descending.
         Enable filter pane
         Filters provide a quick option to sort and look for specific data quickly.
                                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
          Form designer configuration View                     Form designer display View
           Form designer configuration View                       Form designer display View
           The filter pane setting allows you to enable or        Enable the filter pane by checking the box next to the
           disable filter functionality on timeline. It's enabled setting. This setting enables the filter icon to display
           by default.                                            on the timeline.
                                                                  To disable the filter pane, clear the box next to the
                                                                  setting and the filter icon no longer appears on the
                                                                  timeline.
         Filter records on timeline
         Filters are valuable for sorting data. You can quickly filter activities, notes, and posts with multiple
         options to display what matters to you. The filter is available for the activities, notes, posts, and
         custom tables that are present in the timeline. The timeline filters and displays the records and
         the count that are present in the timeline.
         When you select filters based on an activity status then those activities, notes, and posts are
         displayed in your timeline. You can customize data using data filters and either choose to keep
         filters in place or clear them when you're done.
                When the Filter icon is transparent          on the table form, it means no items were selected,
                so the filter pane is empty.
                When the Filter icon is dark       , it means filters are set. To view which filters are set, select
                the     Filter icon. The filter pane displays the selected filters.
                Choose how you want to filter data by selecting the box next to the filter.
                Clear filters by selecting the Clear all filters       icon on the filter pane.
         The following category and subcategory options are available on the filer menu:
                                                                                                        ﾉ
                                                                                                            Expand table
           Category        Subcategory
           Record type        Notes
                              Activities
                              Posts
           Activity type      Appointment
                                                 1
                              Campaign Activity
                                                   1
                              Campaign Response
                              Email
           Category        Subcategory
                              Fax
                                               1
                              Case Resolution
                              Letter
                                                1
                              Opportunity Case
                                          1
                              Order Case
                              Phone Call
                                           1
                              Quote Close
                              Recurring Appointment
                              Social Activity
                              Task
                                                       1
                              Project Service Approval
                                            1
                              Booking Alert
                              Conversation
                              Session
                                                            1
                              Customer Voice survey invite
                                                               1
                              Customer Voice survey response
                              Custom activities (made available by imported solutions)
           Activity           Active
           status             Overdue
                              Closed
           Activity        Allows you to filter using specific status reasons. The values are a unique list of all of the
           status          status reasons from the activities in the timeline. The status reasons change depending on
           reason          the activity. If multiple activities on the timeline have the same status reason, it appears
                           once. The number next to it shows how many times the status reason occurs on the timeline.
           Activity due       Next 30 days
           date (active)      Next seven days
                              Next 24 hours
                              Last 24 hours
                              Last seven days
                              Last 30 days
           Posts by           Auto post
                              Users
           Modified           Last 24 hours
           date               Last seven days
                              Last 30 days
            ７ Note
            By default, the fax and letter records are disabled on the timeline.
         1
           Requires a Dynamics 365 app
         Expand filter pane
         The Expand filter pane setting provides quick access to sorting options within the timeline. It's
         enabled by default.
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
           Form designer configure view                         Form designer display view
           The Expand filter pane by default setting displays   Enable the Expand filter pane by checking the box next
           an expanded filter pane at the top of the form       to the setting. This setting enables the filter pane to
           each time the form opens or refreshes. It's          appear at the top of the form anytime the form is
           disabled by default.                                 opened and refreshed.
                                                                To disable the Expand filter pane, clear the box next to
                                                                the setting and the filter pane doesn't appear on the
                                                                timeline.
         Enable search bar
         You can search for records in the timeline. When you search for a phrase in the timeline, it
         searches in the title of the record or body and description column of the record then displays the
         record for you.
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
           Form designer configure view                             Form designer display view
           Select Enable search bar to enable the Search            Enable the search bar setting to display a search bar at
           timeline bar functionality. It's enabled by default.     the top of the timeline.
                                                                    Disable the search bar by clearing the box next to the
                                                                    setting and the search bar doesn't appear on the
                                                                    timeline.
          Expand all records in timeline
          Expand all records by default displays all activities in an expanded view in timeline.
                                                                                                            ﾉ
                                                                                                                Expand table
           Form designer configure view                        Form designer display view
           Form designer configure view                      Form designer display view
           Select Expand all records to set the default      1. When enabled, the Expand all records icon is displayed
           view to display all records in the expanded       in the top-right corner of the timeline nav.
           view format in the form each time the             2. Records can be expanded or collapsed by using the
           timeline is opened. Expand all records is         Expand all records icon. When expanded, all records
           disabled by default.                              display in the expanded view each time the form opens.
                                                             When you clear Expand all records, it no longer displays
                                                             activities in an expanded view.
                                                             When disabled, the Expand all records icon doesn't display
                                                             in the top-right nav of the timeline. Records are always be
                                                             displayed in a collapsed view.
         Edit filter pane
         You can configure the default filters that are applied when a form loads or is refreshed using Edit
         filter pane. Remove filter groups by turning the setting Off. Users can remove the default filters
         to display all the records unless Enable filter pane is disabled.
         Configure email commands for timeline
         You can configure email options for the timeline so that users can reply, reply-all, and forward
         messages. You can select the order in which the options are displayed for users, and exclude
         them if they're not needed. Reply-all is the default order setting.
             1. Select the form for which you want to apply the email settings, and then in Properties in
                Conversation Tabs, select the Email activity type. The Email properties pane is displayed.
     2. In Select and order commands, check the boxes for the email commands you want to
      configure for users. You can drag and drop the options to choose the order in which you
      want each option to display.
     3. Select Done, and then save and publish your changes.
    Expand records with images in timeline
    You can send and receive records with images, but they don't display when the record is
    collapsed. To view the images, you must expand the records.
        1. Records when collapsed provide a visual summary. To expand an individual record, select
         anywhere on the timeline record to expand and collapse a record view. In the bottom-right
         corner of the record, there's a caret:
             When the caret is facing downward (˅), the record is collapsed.
             When the caret is facing upward (^), the record is expanded.
        2. Records with images might display the following notice:
         This email has been blocked due to potentially harmful content. View full email content.
        3. When you select the message, the warning goes away, and the image appears.
      Enable "What you’ve missed" summary
      The What you’ve missed summary helps you stay on top of updates and changes made to
      records by displaying updates at the top of the timeline when you access a record.
                                                             ﾉ
                                                               Expand table
           Form designer configure view                                     Form designer display view
           The What you’ve missed setting displays new records that         When enabled, when you view an account
           are available for review. It's enabled by default. To disable    record, the newest activities appear at the top
           it, clear the box next to the setting.                           of the list.
          Record settings
          This section describes the settings available in the Record settings area of the timeline control
          settings. The Record types to show setting determines the record types that are affected by the
          Record settings described here.
          Record settings let you manage the settings within the record types.
                The Activities record type is tied to Activities in record settings.
                Notes record type is tied to Notes in record settings.
                Posts record type is tied to Posts in record settings.
          To enable or disable a record type, select or clear the checkbox. Then, that record type either
          displays or no longer appears in the Record settings section.
       1. When Posts is checked in the Record types to show section, it appears in the Record
        settings section.
       2. When Posts is cleared in the Record types to show section, it no longer shows in the
        Record settings section.
     Configure activity record types
     When you expand the Activities record settings on the timeline component section, a list is
     displayed that shows all the activity types that can be either enabled or disabled on the table
     form.
                                                   ﾉ
                                                     Expand table
           Form designer configuration view                                              Form designer display view
           1. Expand and view Activities under the Record settings section using the     1. When enabled, an Activity
           caret (^).                                                                    type appears under the
           2. A list of Activity types is displayed in the expanded view.
                                                                                         Create a timeline record    .
           3. You can enable or disable an activity by selecting an activity type. For
                                                                                         2. The activity type is
           example, enable Email.
                                                                                         displayed as an option the
                                                                                         user can choose from the
           To enable an Activity type, check the box next to Enable and select Done.
                                                                                         dropdown menu.
                                                                                         3. Also, the Activity type
           To disable an Activity type, clear the box next to Enable, and then select
                                                                                         record is displayed in the
           Done. This action disables all other items in the box and disables the activity
                                                                                         body of the timeline.
           type from displaying on the timeline. This action also disables the activity
           type from being created or viewed in the timeline.
            ７ Note
            A checkmark appears next to enabled Activity types. Other record type settings remain
            disabled until you enable them for that record type.
         Show status tags on activity record types
         Status tags match the status filters that display in the timeline to help you be able to quickly
         review whether the state of an activity record is Active, Overdue, or Closed, such as on a task,
         appointment, or email. Makers enable or disable status tags for any Activity type in the default
         form configuration. Status tags are enabled by default.
                                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
           Form designer configuration view                              Form designer display view
                                                                
           To display email status tags, select Default form (pencil     When enabled, status tags such as Active,
           icon) > Show in the Display option dropdown list under        Overdue, or Closed appear in the timeline next
           STATUS TAG.                                                   to that activity record.
         Enable the ability to create directly from timeline
         App makers have the ability to enable activity types so they can be created directly on the
         timeline. Having the ability to quickly select and create an activity, such as email, tasks, and
         appointments, helps to streamline productivity.
                                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
           Form designer configuration view                         Form designer display view
           To allow users to create activity types directly from    When enabled, the activity type appears in a
           the timeline, check the box next to Create directly
                                                                    dropdown box on the Create a timeline record 
           from timeline.
                                                                    icon in the top-right of the timeline.
          Set form types to create and open activities
          Set the Create activities using and Open activities using individually for an activity type or for all
          activity types to set the form type users use based on your business needs. You can set these
          fields as follows:
                Select an activity type in Activities and specify the values.
                Specify the value for these fields in the Activities pane.
    If you set the following form type for a specific activity, the application considers the following
    settings:
      Default: The form type in the Create activities using or Open activities using in Activities.
      Quick create form, Main form, or Main form dialog: The activity specific setting irrespective
      of the form type set in Create activities using or Open activities using in Activities.
    When a user creates or opens an activity from the timeline, it uses the selected form type.
    Enable command actions on activity record types (Preview)
        ７ Note
        These features are part of an early access release. You can opt in early to enable the features
        in your environment, which allows you to test them and then adopt them across your
        environments. For information about how to enable these features, refer to Opt in to early
        access updates.
      Command actions allow users to assign, close, delete, open a record, or add a record to a queue
      for activities from the timeline. You can enable or disable the command actions for a specific
      activity type.
      Based on the activity type, you can also enable other command actions. For example, for an email
      you can also enable actions such as Reply, Reply All, and Forward.
                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
          Form designer configuration view                                          Form designer display view
          To allow users to enable command actions for an activity directly from the
          timeline, check the box next to command action in Select and order
          commands. You can only enable five command actions for an activity.
          You can also move the position of the command actions to change the       When enabled, the command
          order in which they're displayed on the timeline.                         action appears on the activity
                                                                                    record in the timeline.
         Display related records on the timeline
         Accounts, contacts, cases, and opportunities linked to an activity are displayed on the timeline
         record. The administrator can enable or disable the records in Regarding records.
                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
         Form designer configuration    Form designer display view
         view
         1. Expand and view activities  When the checkbox is enabled, users can view the linked records to an
         under the Record settings      activity. The record linked to the activity is then displayed on the timeline.
         section using the caret (^).   The linking of the record isn't manual and it occurs due to the rollup of
         2. A list of records are       the record. Learn more in Set the activity rollup type in timeline.
         displayed in Regarding
         records.
         3. To enable records, select the
         box next to Enable and select
         Done.
           ７ Note
           A check mark appears next to the enabled record. Disabling the table type only disables the
           linked record for the Timeline records rolled up for that table.
        Create and use card forms in timeline
        Records are displayed using the default setting for each activity type. To display record
        information for an appointment or email, edit the existing card form, select a different card form
        in record settings, or customize a new card form.
                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
           Form designer                 Form designer display view
           configure view
           You can change the            If you create a new card form, you must go to the parent table and add the new
           default card settings to a    form of card type there before it appears in the timeline list for configuration. If
           different card form if one    Default is displayed, you aren't using the card form. You can't use the Email
           exists.                       card form in a timeline unless you select and publish it first.
            ７ Note
            Not all activity types allow you to create card types, so the default selection is your only
            option for those records.
          Customize a card from within timeline
          All card forms are separated into the following four sections:
          Legend
             1. ColorStrip: This section doesn't appear on the timeline record. The ColorStrip is located on
                the left of the card form.
             2. Header: This section is displayed on the timeline record; however, only the first two columns
                are displayed on the timeline record. For this example, only the Subject and Modified On
                columns are visible.
             3. Details: This section is displayed on timeline record; however, only the first three columns
                are displayed on the timeline record. For this example, only the To, CC, and Description
                columns are visible on the timeline record.
             4. Footer: This section isn't displayed on the timeline record.
             5. Table columns: You can select which columns you want to add to your card form from the
                column options listed. You can customize your card form by dragging and dropping the
                columns you want to use into the sections you want that column to appear in on the
                timeline record.
         Each individual card form must be customized for each activity record, such as email, tasks, posts,
         and so forth.
         Header section
         The card Header displays the title/subject in your timeline email form. You can have up to six
         columns in the Header section, but only the first two columns display on the timeline record. The
         form ignores empty columns in all sections.
                                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
           Form designer configuration view                                            Form designer display view
           Column 1                                                                    Column 1
           1. Regardless of the column you choose for this section, it appears as a    1. Column 1 from the card header
           bold header at the top of your timeline record. For this example, we        is always displayed in this section
           selected Subject for this column.                                           of the timeline record.
           Form designer configuration view                                            Form designer display view
           Column 2                                                                    Column 2
           2. Again, regardless of the column you choose for this section, this        2. Column 2 from the card header
           column always appears in the bottom-right corner of the timeline            is always displayed in this section
           record. For this example, Modified On is selected for this column.          of the timeline record.
         Details section
         The card Details section displays in the body of your timeline email record. You can have up to
         four columns in the Details section, but only the first three columns are viewable on the timeline
         record.
                                                                                                         ﾉ
                                                                                                             Expand table
           Form designer configuration view                                     Form designer display view
           The card details always appears below the header regardless of       Column 1
           the column you choose.                                               1. This column always displays in this
                                                                                section and acts as a subheader on the
           Column 1                                                             timeline record.
           1. In the card details, Column 1 acts as a subheader on the
           timeline record. For this example, To is selected for this column.   Column 2
                                                                                2. This column always displays in this
           Column 2                                                             section and only displays one line of text
           Form designer configuration view                                   Form designer display view
           2. This column only displays one line of text in a summary view    in the summary view but when expanded,
           on the timeline record. When you expand your timeline record,      content is fully displayed.
           content in this column is fully displayed and formatted. For this
           example, CC is selected for this column.                           Column 3
                                                                              3. This column always displays in this
           Column 3                                                           section and is only viewable when the
           3. This column follows the content of Column 2 and is part of      record is expanded.
           the main body of your timeline record that is only viewable
           when you expand the record. For this example, Description is
           selected for this column.
         Footer section
         This section isn't visible on the timeline record.
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
           Form designer configuration view                               Form designer display view
           Column 1                                                       These columns aren't visible on the timeline
           1. For this example, we selected Owner for this column.        record
           Column 2
           2. For this example, we selected Regarding for this column.
           Column 3
           3. For this example, we selected Priority for this column.
            ７ Note
            The Modified On field updates to the time of the modification. The Modified By field
            assigns the record to a single user when the table is reassigned. This behavior occurs due to
            cascading relationships. Learn more in Configure table relationships cascading behavior.
    Set the date to use when sorting activities in timeline
    How users view data is important, and setting a default display view of the data varies based on
    the needs of your business. App makers can choose how data is sorted and create a default
    setting for Activity types in Record settings. Last Updated is on all activities. It's the default
    setting in ascending order.
    Legend
     1. The Sort activity by setting in the Activities record settings allows you to control how data
      is sorted in timeline.
     2. The Sort activities by column displays a list when selected. You can select from this list how
      you want your data to be sorted and displayed on timeline in the form.
    Sort date
    Some dates can only exist on specific types of activities. For example, Date sent or Date delivery
    last attempted only apply to email. If you sort by such dates, then non-email activities end up
    grouped together without any ordering. You can't create a custom date column, but if you need
    more flexibility, you can use Sort date, which is empty by default and requires that you populate
    it for each activity record with the date you want to use for sorting. Some of the ways you can
    populate the date are by using Microsoft Power Automate, business rules, or JavaScript.
    When using Sort date, keep in mind the following details:
      If you set a value in Sort date, you can use it for more customized sorting, but you have to
      populate it for every activity record or it doesn't work. The sort date has to be configured
      for each timeline instance, and must be set up for all three main forms in the account table.
      If the DateTime column is on the same calendar day, the date doesn't display if DateTime
      was earlier in the day compared to the current time.
      The sort date isn't based on a 24-hour period, but rather, compares the DateTime column
      value with the current date and time (based on the user's preferred time zone). If the value
      entered occurred earlier in the day, the date isn't displayed.
    Set the activity rollup type in timeline
    The activity rollup type can be configured for timelines on forms for the account and contact
    tables. The available types of rollups are Extended, Related, and None. Activity rollup only affects
    accounts and contacts in Dynamics 365 apps, such as Dynamics 365 Customer Service
    applications. To only show activities that are directly related to the table in timeline, select None.
    Learn more in RollupType EnumType.
    Timeline performance
    If you select more than 10 Activity types, a warning message displays to indicate that the number
    of selected activity types impacts timeline performance. Limit activity types to 10 or fewer to
    improve performance.
         Notes on timeline
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
          Form designer configuration view                                   Form designer display view
          The Notes section expands when enabled and allows you to:          1. When enabled, Notes can be
          1. Sort notes by date created or date modified. The Modified On    access via the Create a timeline
          date is the default setting.
                                                                             record    icon.
          2. Add a relative web resource path in the Rich text editor
                                                                             2. A dropdown list appears where you
          configuration URL column for customized note capability. Learn
                                                                             can access Notes.
          more in Add the rich text editor control to a model-driven app.
                                                                             3. Use Notes to create a note to add
                                                                             to a record using rich text editing.
                                                                             You can set the font and size for the
                                                                             notes from the timeline, without
                                                                             having to set it multiple times.
         Configure the form for notes
         In the Notes area, under Configure form, select Default form to configure how information is
         displayed in notes, such as relevant users and dates, and whether or not to include labels. This
         setting lets you increase or reduce the number of timeline records that display.
      Header
        Label option: Hide, show, or show on hover the label, "Created by" or "Modified by".
        Label: Select the Use default label checkbox label to display the label "Note modified
        by". Clear the checkbox to display the label "Modified by".
        Data column: Select to show either the user who created the note or the user who
        modified the note. The label changes to match the data column you selected.
        Display option: Always show, show on expand, or hide this header containing the user
        who created or modified the note.
      Body1
        Label option: Show or hide the label of the note.
        Display option: Always show, show on expand, or hide the body text.
      Body2
        Label option: Show or hide the label of the note.
        Display option: Always show, show on expand, or hide the body text.
      Footer
        Label option: Show or hide the label, "Created on", "Modified on", or "Overridden on".
        Data column: Select to show the createdon, modifiedon, or overridenon date.
        Display option: Always show, show on expand, this footer containing the createdon,
        modifiedon, or overridenon date.
        Set the notes rollup type in timeline
          ７ Note
          This is an early access feature. You can opt in early to enable these features in your
          environment, which allows you to test these features and then adopt them across your
          environments.
        The rollup type can be configured for timelines on forms for notes. The available types of rollups
        are Extended, Related, and None. To show those records only that are directly related to the
        notes in timeline, select None.
        Learn more in RollupType EnumType.
        Allow users to quickly save notes on timeline
        You can enable Quick save, which allows users to save their notes using Ctrl+S while typing a
        note on the timeline. Quick save helps improve user efficiency by not requiring users to navigate
        to Save or Save and close on the command bar. When users save a note using Ctrl+S, a Save
        successful confirmation message appears in the note on the timeline.
        To enable Quick save, in Power Apps  , go to the timeline settings, and then select the Enable
        Quick save checkbox.
        Posts on timeline
        To enable rich text posts on the timeline, contact Microsoft Support.
          ７ Note
          Posts are only available with certain Dynamics 365 apps, such as apps for Dynamics 365
          Customer Service.
                                                                                     ﾉ Expand table
           Form designer configuration view                                 Form designer display view
           The Posts section expands when enabled and allows you to:        1. When enabled, posts can be accessed by
           - Select Enable user posts enabling users to leave a message
                                                                            selecting Create a timeline record    .
           on the record. Note: You can't enable user posts in the
                                                                            2. A dropdown menu displays, and you can
           Dynamics 365 Field Service mobile app.
                                                                            access Posts.
           - Sort posts by date created or date modified. The Created
                                                                            3. Use Posts to create a post to add to a
           On date is the default setting.
                                                                            record.
           - The Select and order commands (Preview) section allows
           users to display the command actions that can be performed
                                                                            When date Created On is used to sort posts
           on posts displayed on the timeline. You can also move the
                                                                            on the timeline, the location in the timeline
           position of the commands to change the order in which
                                                                            remains constant even when there are
           they're displayed on the timeline.
                                                                            responses to that post.
                                                                            When date Modified On is used to sort
                                                                            posts on the timeline, the location in the
                                                                            timeline adjusts to the top when there are
                                                                            responses to that post.
                                                                            NOTE: The timeline doesn't automatically
                                                                            refresh when post replies are added.
          Form designer configuration view                         Form designer display view
          The Enable simple auto posts (Preview) allows auto posts to
          be displayed either in the existing card format or as a simple
          post. Clear the checkbox to display the posts in the existing
          card format. The checkbox is selected by default.
                                                                   When the Enable simple auto posts
                                                                   (Preview) checkbox is enabled, the posts
                                                                   aren't displayed in card form. Command
                                                                   actions can't be performed on auto posts
                                                                   from the timeline.
        Configure the form for posts
        You can configure how information is displayed in posts, such as relevant users and dates, and
        whether to include labels. This functionality enables you to increase or reduce the number of
        timeline records that appear onscreen.
        Go to your timeline configuration in make.powerapps.com  , scroll down to the Posts section
        containing the Configure form column, and edit the following column in the default form:
             Header
               Label option: Hide, show, or show on hover the label, "Created by" or "Modified by".
               Label: Select the Use default label checkbox label to display the label.
               Data column: Select to show the user who created the post. The label changes to match
               the data column you selected.
               Display option: Always show, show on expand, or hide this header containing the user
               who created the post.
             Body2
               Label option: Show or hide the label of the post.
               Display option: Always show, show on expand, or hide the body text.
             Footer
               Label option: Show or hide the label, "Created on", "Modified on", or "Overridden on".
               Data column: Select to show the createdon or modifiedon date.
               Display option: Always show, show on expand, this footer containing the createdon or
               modifiedon date.
        Configure @mentions in notes and posts on timeline
        To enable @mentions in notes and posts, follow the instructions provided in this article: Use
        @mention for collaborating with your team using notes
          ） Important
          The @mentions feature doesn't work with Power Platform environments that were created
          with the Enable Dynamics 365 apps option set to No. Learn more in Create an environment
          with a database.
          Users must have the Read privilege for the msdyn_postconfig entity, and the Share privilege
          for the entity for which they use @mentions (for example, account, contact, case, and so
          forth).
          In-app notifications aren't supported for @mentions in posts on the timeline. Notifications
          are triggered only for @mentions in notes. If you need users to receive notifications, use
          @mentions in notes instead of posts.
     Configure dashboard timelines
     Timelines can be configured and put on a dashboard. However, the configuration available for
     timeline applied to a dashboard is limited to the functionality provided by the legacy designer
     experience. The new form designer experience on dashboards isn't available.
      ７ Note
      Capabilities on a dashboard timeline are different than those in an embedded dashboard
      timeline.
      Dashboard timelines contain records related to the current user. This means each user
      reviews a different set of information for the same dashboard timeline. Notes are not
      available on the dashboard.
     This following image shows the General tab, where you can modify the timeline control
     properties:
    The following image shows the Activities tab, where you can modify the Timeline Control
    properties:
                                                         -->
     Configure autopost messages to display on the timeline
      ７ Note
         The autopost functionality is only available with environments that are configured for
         Enable Dynamics 365 apps.
       Dynamics 365 includes autopost rules for some standard tables such as account,
       contact, lead, and case. It isn't possible to create new autopost rules. However, you can
       use other options such as Power Automate or a custom plug-in to create a post record
       based on the desired conditions.
    You can configure which autopost messages appear on the timeline when a system event occurs.
    The autopost configuration replaces the legacy Activity Feed Configuration and Activity Feed
    Configuration Rules.
    To configure the autopost messages that should be displayed:
     1. In Customer Service Hub, go to Service Management, and under Timeline settings, select
      Auto-post rules.
     2. Select which autopost rules to make active using the grid and Activate and Deactivate
      buttons at the top.
    When a system event corresponding to an active rule occurs, an autopost message displays on
    the timeline.
    If you're using a Dynamics 365 app other than Customer Service Hub or Customer Service
    workspace, you need to add your own sitemap. To add your own sitemap in your app:
     1. Open your app in the app designer in Power Apps: make.powerapps.com
      2. On the app designer command bar, select Add page, select Table based view and form,
        and then select Next.
      3. In the Table list, select Post Rule Configuration, and then select Add.
         ７ Note
         If you don't have the Post Rule Configuration table, your environment doesn't have the
         required Dynamics 365 app installed.
      4. Select Save, and then select Publish.
     Let users pin and unpin activities to the top of timeline
     You can configure the ability for users to pin or unpin activities, such as notes, to the top of the
     timeline so that they're easily accessible. Pinning activities helps users save time by not requiring
     them to scroll an entire timeline to find the information they need.
     By default, notes are enabled for pinning. When you select an activity type such as a task,
     appointment, and so forth, the pin or unpin option appears in the list of commands. Select the
     Pin / Unpin checkbox for each activity you want users to be able to pin or unpin.
     Enable modern Timeline control experience
     The modern Timeline control experience provides a refreshed, visually consistent interface for
     activities and posts in model-driven apps. It improves readability and aligns with the latest Power
     Apps design patterns while preserving existing timeline functionality.
     This feature is disabled by default and doesn’t automatically replace the classic timeline
     experience.
     Prerequisites
     Be