          controls and subgrids. If you don’t want a quick create form to appear in your app you
          must delete it.
          Be aware of the behavior that occurs when a parent relationship is created with the
          same table. For example, if Account has a relationship to Account and lookup is
          created that is used by a quick create form that creates a parent row, the first row
          won't be saved with the lookup that has the parent row value. This is because of the
          circular reference introduced by using the same table. If you experience this issue, you
          can resolve it by removing the parent row ID on the quick create form before saving
          the row.
     Next steps
     Create quick view form
     Form types overview
      Last updated on 08/06/2026
     Create a quick view form to view
     information about a related table
     This article describes how to create a quick view form and how to add a quick view control to a
     main form.
     You can add a quick view form to another form as a quick view control. It provides a template
     to view information about a related table row within a form for another table row. This means
     app users don't need to navigate to a different row to see the information they need to do
     their work.
     Note that while a quick view form can appear over a view or a form, it is authored as a form,
     rather than a view.
     In the example here, notice the module that relates to a given lesson within the quick view
     form. A one-to-many relationship exists between the two tables for this to be possible. You can
     see additional columns of metadata, including the image associated with the module. The form
     then continues with the metadata associated with the lesson table record.
    Quick view controls are associated with a lookup column that is included in a form. If the
    lookup column value isn't set, the quick view control is not visible.
     ７ Note
                 You can't edit data in quick view form controls and they don't support form scripts.
                 Because quick view forms are viewed using a quick view control in a form, they don't
                 include header, footer, or navigation areas.
                 Security roles can't be assigned to quick view forms and they can't be activated or
                 deactivated.
                 Custom controls aren't supported in quick view forms, and there is limited
                 customization support for complex controls such as subgrids. If this is required,
                 consider using a Form component control
         Create a quick view form
         You create quick view forms by using the form editor, similar to how you create other forms.
         Quick view forms are read-only. Use them to create forms that are for reading purposes only.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps    and then select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the
              item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            2. Open the table where you want to create a quick view form, select the table that you
              want, and then select the Forms area.
            3. On the toolbar, select New form > Quick view form.
            4. Enter a Form name and Form description to differentiate this quick view form from
              others.
            5. Optionally, clear Get AI-generated column suggestions if you don't want suggestions
              from Copilot for the columns to create for the form based on the Form name and Form
              description values.
            6. Select Create.
            7. The form designer opens. Drag columns you want to add from the left Table columns
              pane into the form canvas. To remove columns you don't want, select the column, and
              then select Delete on the command bar.
                 ） Important
                 Required columns can't be removed from a form. If you add a required column to
                 the form and want to remove it, you must delete the form and then re-create it.
                 When you set the required property for a column, a row can't be saved without data
                 in the column.
            8. Select Save and publish to make your changes available to users of the apps that use the
              form.
         Edit a quick view form
         Quick view forms have a simplified layout because they are designed to be viewed within a
         form section. Only one single column tab is available with quick view forms. You can add only
         additional single column sections, columns, subgrids, and spacers.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Open the solution that has the table where you want to edit the form, and open the table
              you want, and then select the Forms area.
            3. Open the quick view form.
            4. Add or remove the table columns you want.
                 ） Important
                 You can't delete required columns. If you add a required column to the form, you
                 can't delete it. If you don't want the column in the form, you must delete the form
                 and then re-create it.
            5. When you're done editing a quick view form, select Save and publish to publish your
              changes so they're visible in the application.
         Add a quick view control to a main form
         You can add quick view forms to a main form only when a lookup column exists that targets
         the table of the quick view form.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Open the solution that has the table where you want to edit the form, and open the table
              you want, and then select the Forms area.
            3. Open a form, which Type is Main
            4. In the form designer, select Quick view from the Components pane.
            5. In the Select quick view forms dialog box, select the Lookup column, and then select the
              lookup column value. More information: Quick view control properties.
            6. Select Done to close the Select quick View forms dialog box. The quick view form
              appears on the form.
            7. To save and publish the form select Save and publish.
           ） Important
           Be aware of the behavior that occurs when you create a parent relationship with the same
           table. For example, if Account has a relationship to Account and a lookup is created that is
           used by a quick create form that creates a parent row, the first row will not be saved with
           the lookup that has the parent row value. This is because of the circular reference
           introduced by using the same table. If this issue is experienced it can be resolved by
           removing the parent row ID on the quick create form before saving the row.
         Quick view form properties
         When the quick view form is used in a main form the following properties can be set or
         updated.
                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
          Property       Description
          Name           Required: Enter a unique name for the quick view form. Use this name when referencing
                         the form in scripts.
          Label          Required: Enter a label to display for the quick view form.
          Display label  Choose whether to display the label on the form.
          on the Form
          Property       Description
          Lookup         Choose one of the lookup columns included in the form.
          Column
          Related table  This value depends on the Lookup Column chosen. It's usually the primary table for the
                         1:N table relationship for the lookup.
                         If the table includes a Potential Customer lookup that can accept either an account or
                         contact, in the Quick View Form column you can choose a quick view form for both
                         account and contact by changing this value and then choosing another quick view form.
          Quick View     If the Related table has any quick view forms these can be selected here. Otherwise,
          Form           select New to create one.
         Next steps
         Create and edit a card form
          Last updated on 03/31/2026
       Create a card form
       Article • 03/13/2023
       Card forms are used in views for model-driven apps. Card forms are designed to present
       information in a compact format that is suitable for mobile devices. For example, the
       default card form for the My Active Accounts view defines the information displayed for
       each account row.
       Although card forms can be created and edited in the same way as other form types,
       card forms are added to apps differently. Instead of adding a form as an app
       component, custom card forms are added to views by using the Read-only Grid control.
             Create a card form
                1. To create a card form, sign in to Power Apps   .
                2. Select Tables, select the table you want, and then select the Forms area. If the item
                  isn’t in the left navigation pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
                3. On the toolbar select Add form, and then select Card form. Alternatively, you can
                  open an existing Form type that's a Card form to edit it.
                4. Add the columns that you want. We recommend that you limit the number of
                  columns so that the form displays well on small screens.
                5. Select Save, and then select Publish.
             Add a card form to a view
               ） Important
               To add a custom card form to a view requires the deprecated Read-only Grid
               control. The Read-only Grid has been deprecated so it is no longer the default grid
               control for tables in Dataverse. However, while the control remains available you
               can select it for a table to use to create a card form view. More information:
               Configure a grid control for a table
                1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
                2. Select Tables, select the table you want, and then select the Views area. If the item
                  isn’t in the left navigation pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
                3. Select the view that you want, and then on the view designer toolbar, select Switch
                  to classic.
                4. Select Custom Controls from the Common Tasks pane.
                5. Select Add Control, from the list of controls select Read Only Grid, and then select
                  Add.
                     ７ Note
                     There are two read only grid controls. The default read only grid control that
                     is named Read-only Grid (default) doesn’t support custom card forms.
                6. From the Read Only Grid properties page configure the following properties, and
                  then select OK.
                        Card Form. Select the pencil icon      and then select the card form you want
                        to display in the view. By default, the primary table associated with the view is
                        already selected, but you can change it.
                        Reflow behavior. If you want to change whether the card form displays when
                        resized, select the pencil icon   . More information: Allow grid to reflow
                        into list
                        Select the client types, Web, Phone, or Tablet, where you want the Read Only
                        Grid control to display.
         7. Select OK to close the Custom Controls properties page.
         8. On the classic view designer toolbar, select Save and Close.
       See also
       Form types overview
     Assign model-driven app form order
     ﾃ Summarize this article for me
     When there are multiple main, quick create, quick view, or card forms for a table, a form order
     can be assigned. The form order determines which of the available forms are shown by default.
     The available main forms can be further controlled by assigning security roles to the form.
     More information: Control access to forms
     It isn't possible to assign security roles to quick create, quick view, or card forms, so the only
     form that is used by everyone is the one at the top of the form order.
     Set the form order
       1. Sign into Power Apps, select Solutions, open the solution you want, select a table on the
        left navigation pane, and then select the Forms area. If the item isn’t in the side panel
        pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
       2. Next to the main form you want to configure the fallback form for, select ..., and then
        select Form settings.
       3. In the left navigation on the Form settings page, select Form order.
       4. Select the form set that is required, such as Main Form, Quick Create Form, Quick View
        Form, or Card Form.
       5. Change the order by dragging and dropping the form up and down the list in the order
        best suited to the users. It is also possible to use these keyboard shortcuts: Tab/Tab +
        Shift to move the focus, Space to select or release a form, and Down/Up arrow keys to
        move a form. Select Save and publish.
       Using the classic editor to assign the form order
         ７ Note
         To set form order using the new experience, go to Set the form order.
         1. Open the solution explorer, expand the table that you want, and then select Forms.
         2. In the form list toolbar, select Form Order.
         3. Choose either Main Form Set, Quick Create Form Set, Quick View Form Set, or Card
           Form Set depending on the type of forms you want to work with. More information: Type
           of forms.
         4. The Form Order dialog is a simple list where a selected form can be moved up or down in
           the form order.
         5. After the order has been set, select OK to close the dialog.
       Next steps
       Form designer overview
        Last updated on 02/21/2026
       Overview of the model-driven form
       designer
       Article • 02/15/2022
       The new model-driven form designer provides a modern WYSIWYG authoring
       experience when you work with model-driven forms. It includes several improvements
       not available in the classic model-driven form designer.
       The designer shows a real-time WYSIWYG preview (Unified Interface only) while you
       author a form. Changes to the form are instantly reflected in the preview, enabling you
       to see exactly how the form will appear to users when published. An always available
       property pane makes the common task of updating properties quick and easy. Updates
       to properties are also instantly reflected in the form preview. The columns pane with
       searching and filtering capabilities helps makers quickly find and add columns to the
       form. The components pane makes it easy to discover and use components and provide
       a rich end-user experience. The tree view helps visualize the hierarchy of the form’s
       columns and components and to quickly find and select a particular column or
       component on the form.
       The form designer interface has the following areas:
        1. Command bar – Displays available actions such as Save, Publish, Undo, and Redo.
        2. Form preview – Displays a real-time preview of the form as it will appear to users
         when published.
        3. Panes – Displays panes with specific functions:
            Columns pane to add columns to a form.
            Components pane to add components to a form.
            Tree view to see the hierarchy of components on the form and select them.
            Form libraries pane is where form libraries can be viewed and added. More
            information: Configure model-driven app form event handlers
        4. Property pane – Displays properties of the selected element, and also allows you to
         make changes.
        5. Preview size switcher - Changes the size of the form preview helping you to see
         how the form will appear on various screen sizes.
        6. Show hidden - Displays hidden columns in the form preview area. By default, this
         option is turned off and hidden columns don't appear on the form preview and are
                  visible only from the tree view pane. When enabled, columns that are hidden are
                  indicated in the form preview area with         .
                7. Zoom slider - Zooms in or out of the form preview helping you take a closer look.
                8. Fit to width - Quick action to fit the form preview to the available width.
             Next steps
             How to open the form editor
         Open the model-driven app form editor
         ﾃ Summarize this article for me
         Model-driven app forms let users update data within columns, or fields, associated with a given
         table record.
         The form editor is where you design forms by dropping components such as sections, tabs,
         columns, and controls onto the form editor canvas. In this article, you learn how several
         different ways to access the form editor.
         If you create any new solution components in the process of editing the form, for example web
         resources, the names of the components will use the solution publisher customization prefix
         for the default solution and these components will only be included in the default solution. If
         you want any new solution components to be included in a specific unmanaged solution, you
         should open the form editor through that unmanaged solution.
         Access the form editor from the Power Apps site
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Tables on the left navigation, and then open the table you want, such as the
              account table. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the
              item you want.
            3. Select the Forms area and then open the form you want, such as the Account main form.
         Access the form editor for an unmanaged solution
       1. Select Solutions, on the left naviation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select
        …More and then select the item you want.
       2. Open the unmanaged solution you want to work with.
       3. Open the table with the form you want to edit. If the table isn't there, you'll need to add
        it. More information: Add a table to an unmanaged solution
       4. Select the Forms area, and then open the form you want to edit.
     Add a table to an unmanaged solution
       1. While in an unmanaged solution, on the toolbar above the list, select Add Existing >
        Table.
       2. In the Add existing tables pane, select the table you want to add, and then select Next.
       3. Choose the correct option for the table objects:
           If this is a custom table that doesn't exist in other environments, select Include all
           objects.
           If this table has been customized but already was exported or otherwise exists in
           target environments, select Include table metadata if only properties for the table
           have changed, or select Edit objects and select specific objects, such as columns,
           forms, or views that have been changed or added.
           If no changes have been made, such as if you adding an out-of-box table, don't
           select any options.
       4. Select Add.
     Access the form editor from the classic solution
     explorer
       1. Open solution explorer.
       2. Under Components, expand Tables, and then the table you want, and select Forms.
       3. In the list of forms, select the form you want to edit.
     Next steps
     Create or edit forms
      Last updated on 02/13/2026
         Using the tree view in the form designer
         ﾃ Summarize this article for me
         The Tree view pane displays a visual hierarchy of the components on the form. The icons in the
         tree view help an app maker to quickly identify the type of properties of the column, section,
         tab, or component.
         Use the tree view to select columns and other components present on the form. The tree view
         is helpful when you want to select hidden elements that aren't visible on the form preview.
         You can expand or collapse nodes in the tree view to show or hide the elements within a node.
         When you select an element in the tree view, it becomes highlighted in the form preview, and
         the property pane displays the properties for the element.
         Open the tree view
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
              select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Open the solution you want, select the table you want, and then select the Forms area.
            4. Open the form you want. The form designer opens to enable creation or editing of a
              form.
            5. In the left pane, select Tree view.
         See also
      Overview of the model-driven form designer
      Create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer
      Add, configure, move, or delete columns on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete sections on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete tabs on a form
      Configure header properties in the form designer
      Add and configure a sub-grid component on a form
      Add and configure a quick view component on a form
      Configure a lookup component on a form
      Create and edit columns
      Last updated on 03/04/2026
         Create, edit, or configure forms using the
         form designer
         Use the form designer to create, edit, or configure forms for model-driven apps.
         Create a form
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Solutions, and open the solution you want. If the item
              isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Open a table, such as the account table, and then select the Forms area.
            4. Select New form, and then select one of the following form types:
                    Main form The primary form type for interaction by users with record data. The
                    contents of the new form are filled using the existing main form definition. If
                    multiple main forms exist, the form at the top of the list in the form order for your
                    app is used to fill the new form.
                    Quick view form Quick view forms appear within a main form to display additional
                    read-only data referencing a lookup column. Learn more about main forms
                    Quick create form Best for creating new records quickly where only essential
                    columns are required. Appears in a side panel so users don't navigate away from the
                    current screen.
                    Card form For displaying compact data in a layout that is good for small screens or
                    areas in a subgrid or view.
            5. Enter a Form name, and optionally enter a Description.
            6. If you want to have suggestions from Copilot for the columns to create for the form
              based on the Form name and Description values, select Get AI generated column
              suggestions. For more information about using this AI feature, go to Column suggestions
              by Copilot.
                                                                                                  
            7. Select Create.
         Edit a form
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Solutions, and open the solution you want. If the item
              isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Open a table, such as the account table, and then select the Forms area.
            4. Select the form that you want, and then on the command bar, select Edit.
            5. Make changes such as adding columns or configuring properties.
            6. When you're done making changes to the form, select Save only to save the form, or
              select Save and Publish to save and have your changes available to app users.
         Column suggestions by Copilot
         Use column suggestions by Copilot to select the best columns to display in your model-driven
         app form. Instead of using the default fields that Power Apps selects, makers can view
         suggestions from Copilot. The column suggestions are based on the form name and
         description. Makers review the suggestions and make adjustments as needed, saving time and
         improving the quality of the app.
         Prerequisites
                Prerequisites for Copilot in Power Apps features: Copilot in Power Apps overview
                (preview)
                See if this feature is available in your region: Product availability report
                Learn how to turn on Copilots in your region: Turn on copilots and generative AI features
          How column suggestions work
          Column suggestions are available when you create a new form or view for a Microsoft
          Dataverse table.
          Column suggestions are available for the following form types:
                Quick view
                Quick create
          To understand the AI impact of field suggestions by Copilot in Power Apps, go to FAQs for field
          suggestions by Copilot.
          Form properties
          These are the properties available to configure a form when you create or edit a form using the
          form designer.
                                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
           Name          Description
           Title         Enter a name that is meaningful to other makers and app users. This name is shown to app
                         users. If users have access to multiple forms for a table, they will use this name to
                         differentiate between the available forms.
                         This property is required.
           Description   Enter a description that explains how the form is different from other main forms. This
                         description is only shown to makers in the list of forms for a table in the solution explorer.
           Max Width     Set a maximum width (in pixels) to limit the width of the form. The default value is 1900.
                         This property is required.
           Show          Show the table’s Primary Image if it has one set. This setting enables showing the image
           image         column in the header of the form.
                         More information: Enable or disable table options
      See also
      Overview of the model-driven form designer
      Add, configure, move, or delete columns on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete sections on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete tabs on a form
      Configure header properties in the form designer
      Add and configure a subgrid component on a form Learn more about quick create forms Learn
      more about quick view forms Add and configure a quick view component on a form
      Configure a lookup component on a form
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
       Add, move, configure, or delete
       columns on a form
       Article • 01/28/2025
       Columns define the individual data items that can be used to store information in a
       table. Create new columns to capture data when existing standard tables don’t have
       columns that meet your requirements. After you create a new column, be sure to
       include it on the appropriate forms and views for the table so that they're available in
       your app. For information about the different column types, go to Types of columns.
       Add, configure, move, or delete columns using the form designer.
       Add columns to a form
       To add columns to a form, use the Columns pane. The Columns pane lets you search
       and filter to help you quickly find columns. It also includes the option to show only
       unused columns.
      Add columns to a form using drag and drop
       ７ Note
       When adding or moving columns using drag and drop be aware that the form
       preview is responsive and might be rendering multiple section columns as stacked.
       To ensure that the column being added or moved is in the correct section column,
       drop or paste it anchored to another column that is already in that section.
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. On the command bar, select Add column, and then select Columns. The Columns
        pane is open by default when the form designer is opened.
       3. In the Columns pane, search, filter, or scroll to find the column you want to add. If
        you can't find a column, it might already be on the form. Clear Show only unused
        columns to view all columns, including those already added to the form.
       4. In the Columns pane, select a column and drag it onto the form preview. As you
        drag the column on the form preview, you notice drop targets where you can add
        the column.
       5. Drop the column in the location you want. Note the following behavior:
           Columns can be dropped before or after any existing column or component.
           Columns can also be dropped in the empty area within a section. In this case,
           the column is added in an available space so as to evenly distribute columns
           and components across the section columns.
           Hovering over a tab header when dragging a column changes the currently
           selected tab, allowing you to add the column to a different tab.
       6. Repeat steps 3-5 above if you want to add more columns.
       7. On the command bar, select Save and Publish if you want to save and make your
        changes visible to users.
      Add columns to a form using selection
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. In the form preview, select another existing column or section. Note the following
        behavior:
            When you select an existing column, the new column is added after the
            existing column.
            When you select a section, the new column is added in an available space so
            as to evenly distribute columns across the section columns.
        3. In the command bar, select Add column, or in the left pane, select Columns. The
          Columns pane is open by default when the form designer is opened.
        4. In the Columns pane, search, filter, or scroll to find the column you want to add. If
          you can't find a column, it might already be on the form. Clear Show only unused
          columns to view all columns, including those already added to the form.
        5. In the Columns pane, select a column to add it to the form. Alternatively, select ...
          next to the column you want, and then select Add to selected section.
        6. Repeat steps 2-5 above if you want to add more columns.
        7. In the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to
          save and make your changes visible to users.
       Create a choice column
        1. In the form designer on the command bar, select Form field.
        2. Select New table column.
        3. In the New column pane, enter or select the values for the following complete the
          properties for the choice column. More information: Configure properties for a
          local choice
       Configure column properties on a form
       The properties and events can be configured for column when you create or edit a form
       using the form designer.
               Column properties
               The Properties tab displays the following properties.
                                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
                Area              Name                 Description
                Display           Table column         The name of the column. This comes from the column
                options                                properties on the table and is read-only.
                Display           Label                By default the label matches the display name of the column.
                options                                You can override that name for the form by entering a
                                                       different label here.
                                                       This property is required.
                Display           Hide label           When selected, the column label is hidden.
                options
                Display           Hide on phone        The column can be hidden to render a condensed version of
                options                                the form on phone screens.
                Display           Hide                 When selected, the column is hidden by default and can be
                options                                shown using code.
                Display           Lock                 Lock this column so it can't be removed from the form.
                options
                Display           Read-only            When selected, the column value isn't editable on the form.
                options
                Formatting        Form field width     When the section containing the columns has more than one
                                                       column, you can set the column to occupy up to the number
                                                       of columns that the section has.
                Formatting        Form field           Some columns, such as the multiline text column, let you
                                  height               control the height of the column by specifying the number of
                                                       rows the column occupies.
                Formatting        Use all available    Instead of setting the height by a number of rows, some
                                  vertical space       columns, such as the multiline text column, let you set the
                                                       column height to expand to all the available space on the
                                                       form.
                Components        + Component          Adds a control to the column such as the canvas app control
                                                       or the AI business card control.
                  ２ Warning
       The Hide and Read-only properties should never be used as a secure way to
       prevent users from viewing or editing column values. These properties only apply
       to a form and don't have an effect on a user's data privileges. When a column is
       hidden on a form, users can still access data in other ways like viewing other forms
       or by making Web API calls. To secure columns, use column-level security to
       control access.
       ７ Note
       In Unified Interface, the label size setting is ignored because the form adjusts width
       for all columns to ensure proper rendering for screen sizes from very small to extra-
       large.
             Edit a column and view column names
             To view column names, such as schema name or to change additional column
             properties, such as required, searchable, description, and size, select the column, and
             then in the right column properties pane select the information icon      next to the
             column name.
             To edit the column data type format, required, and advanced options, follow these steps.
                1. On the column Properties tab, select Edit table column to display the Edit Table
                  Column pane where you can make the changes you want.
                2. When you're finished making your changes, select Done.
                3. Select Save and Publish to make your changes available to app users.
             Column events
             The Events tab is where event handlers for model-driven app forms can be configured
             for a column. An event handler consists of a reference to a JavaScript web resource and
             a function defined within that web resource that will execute when the event occurs,
             such as when the value for the column changes. More information: Configure model-
             driven app form event handlers
             Move columns on a form
             You can move a column on a form using drag and drop or cut and paste actions.
             Move columns on a form using drag and drop
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. In the form preview, select the column that you want to move and drag and drop
        it. As you drag the column on the form preview, you'll see drop targets where you
        can move the column to. Note the following:
           Columns can be dropped before or after any existing column or component.
           Columns can also be dropped in the empty area within a section. In this case,
           the column is added in an available space so as to evenly distribute columns
           and components across the section columns.
           Hovering over a tab header when dragging a column changes the currently
           selected tab, allowing you to add the column to a different tab.
       3. Repeat step 2 above if you want to move more columns.
       4. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to
        save and make your changes visible to users.
      Move columns on a form using cut and paste
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. In the form preview, select the column that you want to move.
       3. On the command bar, select Cut.
       4. In the form preview, select another existing column, component, or section. You
        can also switch to a different tab if needed.
       5. On the command bar, select Paste or select the chevron, and then select Paste
        before. Note the following:
           When you select Paste, the column that is moved is pasted after the existing
           column or component.
            When you select Paste before, the column that is moved is pasted before the
            existing column or component.
            When you select a section, the column that is moved is added in an available
            space so as to evenly distribute columns and components across the section
            columns. The Paste before action isn't applicable and therefore not available
            in this case.
        6. Repeat steps 2-5 above if you want to move more columns.
        7. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to
         save and make your changes visible to users.
       Delete columns on a form
        1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
         or Edit a form
        2. In the form preview, select the column that you want to delete from the form.
        3. On the command bar, select Delete.
        4. Repeat steps 2-3 if you want to delete more columns.
        5. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to
         save and make your changes visible to users.
           ７ Note
             If you delete a column by mistake, on the command bar, select Undo to
             revert the form to its previous state.
              You can't delete a column that is locked or is required and not present
              anywhere else on the form.
       Create a new column on the table when editing
       a form (preview)
       [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
       Create new columns from the form designer. When a column is created on a table, it
       isn't limited to the current form and is available for use in other forms and views for the
       table.
        ） Important
           This is a preview feature.
           You can use the modern form designer to create any available column type.
        1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
          or Edit a form
        2. On the left navigation pane, select the Table columns pane, and then select New
          table column.
        3. In the New column pane, provide the Display name for the column.
        4. Select the Data type and configure any other required properties of the column.
        5. Select Save to create a new column on the table. The column appears in the Table
          columns pane.
        6. If you want to add the newly created column to the form, follow the steps outlined
          in the Add columns to a form section.
       See also
       Overview of the model-driven form designer
       Create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer
       Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
       Add, configure, move, or delete sections on a form
       Add, configure, move, or delete tabs on a form
       Configure header properties in the form designer
       Add and configure a subgrid component on a form
       Add and configure a quick view component on a form
       Configure a lookup component on a form
              Using the tree view in the form designer
              Create and edit columns
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Add, configure, move, or delete
       components on a form
       Article • 06/29/2022
       By using the form designer, makers can easily add and configure popular components
       such as subgrid, quick view, web resources, pen input, and more.
       Add components to a form
       To add components to a form, use the Components pane. Components can be found
       easily using the search in the Components pane.
      Add components to a form using drag and drop
       ７ Note
       When adding or moving components using drag and drop, be aware that the form
       preview is responsive and might render multiple section columns as stacked. To
       ensure that the component that's added or moved is in the correct section column,
       drop or paste it anchored to another column or component that is already in that
       section column.
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. On the command bar, select Add component, or in the left pane, select
        Components to see a list of available components. Hover over a component in the
        list to see a preview image, description, and other details of that component.
       3. In the Components pane, search or scroll to find the required component then
        select to add the component.
       4. Drag and drop the component onto the form preview. As the component is
        dragged on the form preview, drop targets appear.
         ７ Note
            Components can be dropped before or after any existing component or
            column.
            Components can also be dropped in the empty area within a section. In
            this case the component will be added in an available space so as to
            evenly distribute columns and components across the section columns.
            Hovering over a tab header when dragging a component changes the
            currently selected tab, allowing the component to be added to a
            different tab.
            When the component is dropped, in most cases, a dialog to configure
            the properties of the component will appear. Ensure that all the required
            properties of the component are configured.
       5. In the dialog to configure the properties of the component, under Show
        component on, the Web, Mobile, and Tablet options are selected by default to
        ensure the component is used when the form is displayed on the web, mobile app,
        and tablet app. Based on you app's requirements, you might want to clear some of
        the client types for the component.
       6. Select Done.
       7. Repeat steps 3-6 above to add more components.
       8. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish to make the
        changes visible to users.
      Add components for a column on the form
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. In the form preview, select an existing column.
       3. In the property pane, under the Components area, select + Component.
       4. The Add component dialog displays a list of components that are available for the
        current column type. Hover over a component in the list to see a preview image,
        description, and other details of that component.
       5. In the Add component dialog, search, or scroll to find the required component to
        add and then select it. In most cases, a dialog is displayed to configure the
        properties of the component. Ensure that all the required properties of the
        component have been configured.
        6. In the dialog to configure the properties of the component, under Show
         component on, the Web, Mobile, and Tablet options are selected by default to
         ensure the component is used when the form is displayed on the web, mobile app,
         and tablet app. Based on the requirements some of these options to limit the
         usage of the component can be cleared.
        7. Select Done.
        8. Repeat steps 2-7 above to add more components to the same or another column.
        9. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish to save and
         make the changes visible to users.
      Configure components on a form
        1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
         or Edit a form
        2. In the form preview, select an existing column.
        3. In the property pane, under the Components area, select the component that you
         want configured.
        4. A dialog might appear to configure the properties of the component. Change the
         properties of the component as needed, and then select Done.
        5. Repeat steps 2-4 to configure more components on the same or another column.
        6. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish to save and
         make the changes visible to users.
      Move components on a form
      To move components on a form, either use drag-and-drop or cut-and-paste actions.
      Move components on a form using drag and drop
        1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
         or Edit a form
        2. In the form preview, select the component to move and drag and drop it. As the
         component is dragged onto the form preview, drop targets appear where it can be
         moved.
          ７ Note
             Components can be dropped before or after any existing component or
             column.
            Components can also be dropped in the empty area within a section. In
            this case the component will be added in an available space to evenly
            distribute components and columns across the section columns.
            Hover over a tab header while using drag and drop to add the
            component to a different tab.
       3. Repeat steps 2-3 above to move more components.
       4. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish to save and
        make the changes available to users.
      Move components on a form using cut and paste
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. In the form preview, select the required component to move.
       3. On the command bar, select Cut.
       4. In the form preview, select another existing component, column, or section. It is
        possible to switch to a different tab if needed.
       5. On the command bar, select Paste or select the chevron, and then select Paste
        before.
         ７ Note
            When Paste is selected, the component being moved is pasted after the
            existing component or column.
            When Paste before is selected, the component being moved is pasted
            before the existing component or column.
            When a section is selected, the component being moved is added in an
            available space so as to evenly distribute components and columns
            across the section columns.
       6. Repeat steps 2-5 above if to move more components.
       7. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish to save and
        make the changes visible to users.
      Get more components
        1. Select Get more components to find and add other Power Apps components as
         well as custom controls that aren't available by default in the Component pane.
       2. Select the tab you want, either Built by Microsoft or Built by others, and then
        select the component.
        3. Select Add. The component appears under the More components section of the
         Component pane.
      Delete components on a form
        1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
         or Edit a form
        2. In the form preview, select the component that you want to delete from the form,
         and then on the command bar, select Delete.
        3. Repeat step 2 to delete more components.
       4. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish to save and
        make the changes visible to users.
         ７ Note
            If a component is deleted by mistake, select Undo on the command bar
            to revert the form to its previous state.
            A component can't be deleted when it is locked or is using a required
            column that is not present anywhere else on the form.
      See also
      Overview of the model-driven form designer 
      Create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer 
      Add, configure, move, or delete columns on a form 
      Add, configure, move, or delete sections on a form 
      Add, configure, move, or delete tabs on a form 
      Configure header properties in the form designer 
      Add and configure a subgrid component on a form 
      Add and configure a quick view component on a form 
      Configure a lookup component on a form 
      Using the tree view in the form designer 
      Create and edit columns
       Add, configure, move, or delete sections
       on a form
       Article • 05/05/2022
       A section on a form occupies the space available in a tab. Sections have several
       configurable properties including a label that can be displayed.
       Sections help you group similar components in an area of a form tab, such as the
       ACCOUNT INFORMATION, ADDRESS, and Timeline single column sections on the main
       account form Summary tab. Sections can have up to four columns.
       Add sections to a form
       To add sections to a form, use the Components pane.
       ７ Note
       Sections can only be added on main forms and quick view forms. More
       information: Form types. In Unified Interface, empty sections will not render in
       runtime and will be automatically hidden.
      Add sections to a form using drag and drop
       ７ Note
       When adding or moving sections using drag and drop be aware that the form
       preview is responsive and may be rendering multiple tab columns as stacked. To
       ensure that the section being added or moved is in the correct tab column, drop or
       paste it anchored to another section that is already in that tab column.
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. On the command bar, select Add component, or in the left pane, select
        Components.
       3. In the Components pane, select a section component and drag it onto the form
        preview. As you drag the section on the form preview, you will see drop targets
        where you can add the section.
       4. Drop the section in the location you want. Note the following behavior:
           Sections can be dropped before or after any existing section.
           Sections can also be dropped in the empty area within a tab. In this case, the
           section will be added in an available space so as to evenly distribute sections
           across the tab columns.
           Hovering over a tab header when dragging a section changes the currently
           selected tab, allowing you to add the section to a different tab.
       5. Repeat steps 3-4 above if you want to add more sections.
       6. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to
        save and make your changes visible to users.
      Add sections to a form using selection
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. In the form preview, select another existing section or tab. Note the following
        behavior:
           When you select an existing section, the new section is added after the
           existing section.
           When you select a tab, the new section is added in an available space so as to
           evenly distribute sections across the tab columns.
       3. On the command bar, select Add component, or in the left pane, select
        Components.
       4. In the Components pane, select a section component to add it to the form.
        Alternatively, select ... next to the section component you want, and then select
        Add to selected tab.
       5. Repeat steps 2-4 above if you want to add more sections.
       6. On the command bar, select Save to save the form. Select Publish to save and
        make your changes visible to users.
              Configure sections on a form
              These are the properties available to configure a section when you create or edit a form
              using the form designer.
               Area         Name          Description
               Display      Label         The localizable label for the section visible to users.  
               options
                                          This property is required.
               Display      Name          The unique name for the section that is used when referencing it in
               options                    scripts. The name can contain only alphanumeric characters and
                                          underscores.  
                                          This property is required.
               Display      Hide label    When selected, the section label is hidden.
               options
               Display      Hide on       The section can be hidden to render a condensed version of this
               options      phone         form on phone screens.
               Display      Hide          When selected, the section is hidden by default and can be shown
               options                    using code.
               Display      Lock          Lock this section to keep it from being removed.
               options
               Formatting   Columns       Specify up to four columns for the section.
               Formatting   Component     Determines the position for the component label. Select Left to
                            label         display the label to the left of the value or Top to place the label
                            position      above the value.
        ７ Note
        We recommend limiting the length of section label text to about 50 characters.
        Section label text doesn't wrap and can truncate on devices with small screens.
        Sections that don't have any columns or controls will be hidden at runtime in
        Unified Interface.
       Move sections on a form
       You can move sections using drag and drop or cut and paste actions.
       Move sections on a form using drag and drop
        1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
         or Edit a form
        2. In the form preview, select the section label or empty space within the section that
         you want to drag and drop. As you drag the section on the form preview, you will
         see drop targets where you can move the section to. Note the following behavior:
            Sections can be dropped before or after any existing section.
            Sections can also be dropped in the empty area within a tab. In this case, the
            section will be added in an available space to evenly distribute sections
            across the tab columns.
            Hovering over a tab header when dragging a section changes the currently
            selected tab, allowing you to add the section to a different tab.
        3. Repeat step 2 above if you want to move more sections.
        4. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to
         save and make your changes visible to users.
      Move sections on a form using cut and paste
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
        or Edit a form
       2. In the form preview, select the section that you want to move.
       3. On the command bar, select Cut.
       4. In the form preview, select another existing section or tab. You can also switch to a
        different tab if needed.
       5. On the command bar, select Paste or select the chevron, and then select Paste
        before. Note the following behavior:
           When you select Paste, the section being moved is pasted after the existing
           section.
           When you select Paste before, the section being moved is pasted before the
           existing section.
           When you select a tab, the section moved is added in an available space to
           evenly distribute sections across the tab columns. The Paste before action is
           not applicable and therefore not available in this case.
       6. Repeat steps 2-5 above if you want to move more sections.
       7. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to
        save and make your changes visible to users.
       Delete sections on a form
         1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form
          or Edit a form
         2. In the form preview, select the section that you want to delete from the form.
         3. On the command bar, select Delete.
         4. Repeat steps 2-3 above if you want to delete more sections.
         5. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to
          save and make your changes visible to users.
           ７ Note
              Sections can only be deleted on main forms and quick view forms. More
              information: Form types
              If you delete a section by mistake, on the command bar, select Undo to
              revert the form to its previous state.
              You can't delete a section that contains a column that is required or
              locked.
              You can't delete a section that is locked.
              A tab needs to have at least one section in each tab column. If you
              delete the last remaining section in a tab column a new section will be
              automatically added.
              In Unified Interface, sections won't be rendered if you have selected to
              hide them including the title and the border. This is different than the
            legacy web client, and is by design to ensure proper rendering of the
            form across differing view ports from extra wide to narrow.
      See also
      Overview of the model-driven form designer
      Create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer
      Add, configure, move, or delete columns on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete tabs on a form
      Configure header properties in the form designer
      Add and configure a subgrid component on a form
       Add, configure, move, or delete tabs on a
       form
           Summarize this article for me
       ﾃ
       Add, move, or delete tabs on a form using the form designer.
       Add tabs to a form
       To add tabs to a form, use the Components pane.
         ７ Note
         Tabs can only be added on main forms. More information: Form types
       Add tabs to a form using drag and drop
         1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form or Edit
           a form
         2. On the command bar, select Add component, or in the left pane, select Components.
         3. In the Components pane, select a tab component, such as a 1-column tab, and drag and
           drop it onto the form preview. As you drag the tab on the form preview, you notice drop
           targets where you can add the tab. Note the following behavior:
               Tabs can be dropped before or after any existing tabs by hovering over the tab
               headers.
         Tabs can also be dropped before or after the current tab by hovering over the left or
         right edge of the current tab.
      4. Repeat step 3 if you want to add more tabs.
      5. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to save
       and make your changes visible to users.
    Add tabs to a form using selection
      1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form or Edit
       a form
      2. In the form preview, select another existing tab or the form canvas. Note the following
       behavior:
         When you select an existing tab, the new tab is added after the existing tab.
         When you select the form canvas, the new tab is added as the last tab on the form.
      3. On the command bar, select Component, or in the left pane, select Components.
      4. In the Components pane, select a tab component to add it to the form. Alternatively,
       select ... next to the tab component you want, and then select Add to form.
      5. Repeat steps 2-4 if you want to add more tabs.
      6. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to save
       and make your changes visible to users.
          Configure tabs on a form
          These properties are available to configure a tab when you create or edit a form using the form
          designer.
                                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
           Area           Name              Description
           Display        Label             The localizable label for the tab visible to users.
           options
                                            This property is required.
           Display        Name              The unique name for the tab that is used when referencing it in scripts.
           options                          The name can contain only alphanumeric characters and underscores.
                                            This property is required.
           Display        Expand this tab   The tab state can toggle between expanded or collapsed using form
           options        by default        scripts or by people selecting the label. Choose the default state for
                                            the tab.
           Display        Hide              When selected, tab is hidden by default and can be shown using code.
           options
           Display        Hide on phone     The tab can be hidden to render a condensed version of this form on
           options                          phone screens.
           Formatting     Layout            Tabs can have up to three columns. Use these options to set the
                                            number of tabs and what percentage of the total width they should fill.
           Formatting     Column Width      Enter the column width. Valid values are 1 to 100. The default is 100.
     Move tabs on a form
     You can move a tab on a form using drag and drop or cut and paste actions.
     Move tabs on a form using drag and drop
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form or Edit
        a form
       2. In the form preview, select the tab header of the tab that you want to move and drag and
        drop it. As you drag the tab on the form preview, you see drop targets where you can
        move the tab. Note the following behavior:
           Tabs can be dropped before or after any existing tabs by hovering over the tab
           headers.
           Tabs can also be dropped before or after the current tab by hovering over the left or
           right edge of the current tab.
       3. Repeat step 2 if you want to move more tabs.
       4. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to save
        and make your changes visible to users.
     Move tabs on a form using cut and paste
       1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form or Edit
        a form
       2. In the form preview, select the tab that you want to move.
       3. On the command bar, select Cut.
       4. In the form preview, select another existing tab or the form.
       5. On the command bar, select Paste or select the chevron, and then select Paste before.
        Note the following behavior:
           When you select Paste, the tab moved is pasted after the existing tab.
           When you select Paste before, the tab moved is pasted before the existing tab.
           When you select the form, the tab moved is added as the last tab on the form. The
           Paste before action is not applicable and therefore not available in this case.
       6. Repeat steps 2-5 if you want to move more tabs.
       7. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to save
        and make your changes visible to users.
     Delete tabs on a form
         1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form or Edit
           a form
         2. In the form preview, select the tab that you want to delete from the form.
         3. On the command bar, select Delete.
         4. Repeat steps 2-3 above if you want to delete more tabs.
         5. On the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish if you want to save
           and make your changes visible to users.
         ７ Note
             Tabs can only be deleted on main forms. More information: Form types
             If you delete a tab by mistake, on the command bar, select Undo to revert the form
             to its previous state.
               You can't delete a tab that contains sections with required or locked columns.
             You can't delete a tab that has locked sections.
             A form must have at least one tab. You can't delete the last remaining tab on the
             form.
       See also
       Overview of the model-driven form designer
       Create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer
       Add, configure, move, or delete columns on a form
       Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
       Add, configure, move, or delete sections on a form
       Configure header properties in the form designer
       Add and configure a subgrid component on a form
       Add and configure a quick view component on a form
       Configure a lookup component on a form
       Using the tree view in the form designer
       Create and edit columns
        Last updated on 03/02/2026
     Configure header properties in the form
     designer
     Makers can choose the columns displayed in the form header. Form headers have two main
     visual components, the form header and the flyout for the form header.
     Form header
     The form header is used to display common columns that are important for the table. Form
     headers can't display columns that use unsupported controls. More information: Controls that
     can be displayed on the form header
     Most controls that can't be displayed in form header can be displayed in the form header
     flyout.
     Form header flyout
     The form header flyout displays when a user selects the chevron located to the right of the
     form header, which can display more information otherwise hidden in the form header. The
     header flyout enables users to edit column values.
     The header flyout displays all header columns including the four columns that are directly
     displayed in the header. By default, the header flyout is available for display, but makers can
     hide it if needed.
     Show or hide the header flyout
     To show or hide the header flyout for a model-driven form, follow these steps:
      1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form.
      2. Select the form header in the form preview or use the tree view to select it.
      3. In the right property pane, select Show header flyout to make the header flyout visible or
        clear it to hide the header flyout.
      4. In the command bar, select Save to save the form, or select Publish to save and make
        your changes visible to users.
      ７ Note
         Use the new form designer. The classic form designer doesn't provide the ability to
         show or hide the header flyout.
         An image for a table is displayed in the header only when the Primary Image
         attribute is defined for the table and the form property Show image in the form is
         enabled. More information: Image columns.
         Developers can specify an image for a table by using the
         EntityMetadata.PrimaryImageAttribute attribute.
     High-density header
     Model-driven app forms use a high-density form header to ensure that key information is
     always visible to users. High-density headers also make sure the record title never truncates
     and long record titles are displayed using multiple lines. Similarly, the high-density header also
     ensures that up to four column values are directly visible in the header and never truncated or
     hidden.
     To ensure that key information is always visible, the framework displays up to four read-only
     column values and users can't directly edit the column values in the header. Visualizations such
     as custom components or web resources don't render on the header, but are available in the
     flyout.
     Controls that can be displayed on the form header
     Columns set to these controls can be displayed in the main body of a high-density header:
        checkbox
        datetime
        decimal
        duration
        emailaddress
        float
        integer
        languagepicker
        lookup
        money
        phonenumber
        picklist
        regarding
        textbox
        ticker
        timezonepicklist
     These controls are replaced with a simplified version in the header. Thus, not all control
     features are available. For example, for lookup controls, just a link is rendered and control
     options like Use Main Form Dialog for Edit aren't supported.
     Any other type of control, including custom Power Apps Component Framework controls or
     web resources, aren't displayed.
     To show these unsupported controls or have full functionality of controls, add them to the form
     header flyout instead of the form header.
      Form designer messages related to form headers
      When you edit forms using the new or classic form designer, you might see messages related
      to form headers. Below, you can find details on each message and why you're seeing it.
      We've upgraded your form to show a high density header that
      displays more data. You can edit this setting in the properties
      of the header
      This message is displayed in the form designer when a maker creates a new main form
      (including via the Save-as action) or edits a main form that hasn't previously been configured
      for header density.
      The framework defaults to high-density header and this message helps makers become aware
      of that behavior. Makers can override the framework default at any time by manually
      configuring the form header density as outlined earlier.
      This form isn't using high density header, access the setting in
      the header properties. High density header helps display
      more data
      This message is displayed in the form designer when a maker opens a main form for editing
      that is configured to use low-density header.
      The message helps increase awareness about the high-density header and its benefits.
      Column moved to header flyout: The header supports
      displaying up to four read-only column values. The column
      [field display name] will now only be available from the flyout
      This message is displayed in the form designer when a form is using high-density header with
      the header flyout visible.
      High-density header displays read-only values of the first four columns in the header. When
      makers add a column in the header in the top four positions, it causes an existing column that
      was directly displayed in the header to become extended and visible only in the header flyout.
      The message informs the maker of the change and confirms whether to proceed with the
      action.
      Header column limit exceeded: The header supports
      displaying up to four read-only column values. Remove
      unused columns to add more
      This message is displayed in the form designer when a form is using high-density header with
      the header flyout hidden.
      High-density header displays read-only values of up to four columns in the header. Because
      the header flyout is hidden, users are unable to see the additional columns.
      The message informs the maker that there are already four columns in the header and prevents
      adding additional columns in the header that users won't be able to see.
      Header doesn't display custom components: The header
      supports displaying up to four read-only column values.
      Remove the custom component from the column before
      adding it to the header
      This message is displayed in the form designer when a form is using high-density header with
      the header flyout hidden.
      High-density header displays read-only values of columns in the header. Because the header
      flyout is hidden, users are unable to see any custom components associated with the columns
      in the header.
      The message informs the maker that they're trying to add a column with an associated custom
      component to the header and they must remove the custom component before adding the
      column to the header. This is because users won't be able to see the custom component in the
      header.
      Header displays read-only column values: The header
      supports displaying up to four read-only column values. To
      provide editability to the user, add the column to a section in
      the form
      This message is displayed in the form designer when a form is using high density header with
      the header flyout hidden.
     High-density header displays read-only values of columns in the header. Because the header
     flyout is hidden, users will be unable to edit column values.
     The message informs the maker that any columns added to the header will be read-only and
     that any columns they want users to edit should also be added to a section in the form.
     Header column values aren't editable: Moving a column from
     the body to the header will display as a read-only value. To
     maintain editability, copy the column to the header
     This message is displayed in the form designer only for forms using high-density header with
     the header flyout hidden.
     High-density header displays read-only values of columns in the header. Because the header
     flyout is hidden, users will be unable to edit column values.
     The message informs the maker that they're trying to move a column from the form body to
     the form header. Doing so will make it read-only. It gives the maker the choice of moving the
     column to the header or adding a copy of the column to the header. Moving the column to the
     header will make the column unavailable in the original location on the form body for users to
     edit. Adding a copy of the column to the header will leave the column in the original location
     as-is, ensuring that users can continue to edit it within the form body.
     This form is using high density header. For the best authoring
     experience with this form, use the new form designer
     This message is displayed in the classic form designer when a maker opens a main form for
     editing and it's configured to use high-density header.
     The classic form designer doesn't provide a WYSIWYG authoring experience. It also doesn't
     detect and prevent or warn makers about the implications of changes they make to the form
     header. For example, when you edit a form that's using high-density header with the header
     flyout hidden, the classic form designer won't prevent makers from adding more than four
     columns to the header even though these columns won't be available to users.
     The message informs the maker that when editing a form that's using high-density header,
     they should use the new form designer. This helps ensure the maker is aware of the impact of
     their changes to the form header.
     See also
      Overview of the model-driven form designer
      Create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer
      Add, configure, move, or delete columns on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete sections on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete tabs on a form
      Add and configure a subgrid component on a form
      Add and configure a quick view component on a form
      Configure a lookup component on a form
      Using the tree view in the form designer
      Create and edit columns
      Last updated on 04/03/2026
        Add and configure a subgrid component on
        a form
        A form that displays the details of a table record can use a subgrid component to display a read-
        only list of related or unrelated records in a tabular format. From the subgrid, app users can
        create new rows or open an existing row to edit. Makers add and configure a subgrid component
        using the form designer.
        This article explains how makers can add a subgrid component to a model-driven app form. To
        learn how to add an editable grid to a model-driven app form, go to Make model-driven app
        views editable using the editable grid control.
        Add a subgrid component
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   , and select the environment you want.
           2. Select Solutions in the left navigation pane, and then open the solution that contains the
             table you want.
           3. Select Objects on the left pane, select Tables, and then open the table that you want. If the
             item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
           4. Select the Forms area, and then open the form you want to edit.
           5. In the form designer, select Component on the command bar.
           6. Drag a 1-column section on the left Components pane onto the form.
           7. With the New Section selected, select Subgrid from the left Components pane.
            8. On the Select subgrid views pane:
                    Typically app users want to view related records. When Show related records is
                    selected, only tables with a relationship are displayed.
                    Select the Table you want.
                    Select the Default view from the table. When an existing view isn't suitable for the
                    app, create or edit a view for the table.
            9. Select Done.
           10. Select Save, and then select Publish.
         Configure a subgrid component
         These are the properties available to configure when using a subgrid component on a form using
         the form designer.
                                                                                               ﾉ
                                                                                                   Expand table
          Area          Name            Description
          Display       Label           The localizable label for the subgrid visible to users.
          options
                                        This property is required.
          Display       Name            The unique name for the subgrid that is used when referencing it in scripts.
          options                       The name can contain only alphanumeric characters and underscores.
                                        This property is required.
          Display       Hide label      The label can be hidden on the form.
          options
          Display       Hide on         The subgrid can be hidden to render a condensed version of the form on
          options       phone           phone screens.
          Display       Show related    When selected, the subgrid displays only records related to the current
          options       records         record that is displayed on the form.
                                        The Table drop-down list is also filtered to only list tables that are related to
                                        the current table.
          Display       Table           The table whose records you want to display in the subgrid.
          options
                                        When Show related records is selected, the list of tables is filtered to show
                                        only tables that are related to the current table. In addition to the table
                                        name, the name of the lookup column is also displayed in parentheses.
          Area          Name            Description
          Display       Default view    The view of the table selected in the Table property that will be used to get
          options                       and display the list of records in the subgrid.
          Display       Team            Note: This option is only available with the user table when the Default view
          options       template        is Associated Record Team Members. When available, sets the team
                                        template to use for the subgrid. More information: Create a team template
                                        to control access
          Display       Allow users to  When selected, app users can change from the Default view to another view
          options       change view     of the table selected in the Table property.
          Display       Show all        When selected, app users can change from the Default view to all other
          options       views           views of the table selected in the Table property.
                                        This property is only available when Allow users to change view is selected.
          Display       Hide search     When selected, the Search box won't appear on the upper right of the
          options       box             subgrid.
          Display       Selected        A list of views of the table selected in the Table property that app users can
          options       views           change from the Default view.
                                        This property is only available when Allow users to change view is selected
                                        and Show all views is cleared.
          Display       Default chart   Select which chart to show if Show chart only is selected.
          options
          Display       Show chart      Rather than a list of records a chart is displayed.
          options       only
          Display       Allow users to  When Show chart only is selected, app users can change the chart displayed
          options       change chart    in the subgrid.
          Display       Maximum         Determines the maximum number of records to display in the subgrid. The
          options       number of       minimum number of rows displayed is 2 and the maximum is 250.
                        rows
          Display       Use available   Note: This property only works with the legacy web client. It has no effect on
          options       space           Unified Interface.
                                        Determines whether the form allows space for two records and will expand
                                        the space as the number of records increases. If the number exceeds the
                                        Maximum number of rows, people can navigate to additional pages to view
                                        the records. If Use available space isn't chosen the form provides space for
                                        the number of records defined by Maximum number of rows and people
                                        can navigate to additional pages to view any additional records.
         Area         Name           Description
         Formatting   Component      When the section containing the subgrid has more than one column, you
                      width          can set the column to occupy up to the number of columns that the section
                                     has.
        See also
        Overview of the model-driven form designer
        Create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer
        Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
        Add, configure, move, or delete sections on a form
         Last updated on 08/10/2026
          Add and configure a quick view
          component on a form
               Summarize this article for me
          ﾃ
          A main form that displays the details of a record can use a quick view component to display
          read-only details of a related record. This view of a related record is known as a lookup. The
          data displayed by the quick view component is defined by the quick view form of the related
          table. When there is no related record, such as a lookup, the quick view component is
          automatically hidden.
          Add a quick view component
          You add a quick view component the same way you add any other component, which is from
          the Components tab in the form designer. More information: Add, configure, move, or delete
          components on a form
          Configure a quick view component
          These are the properties you can configure when using a quick view component on a form
          using the form designer.
                                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
           Area          Name         Description
           Display       Label        The localizable label for the quick view visible to users.
           options
                                      This property is required.
           Display       Name         The unique name for the quick view that is used when referencing it in
           options                    scripts. The name can contain only alphanumeric characters and underscores.
                                      This property is required.
           Display       Hide label   When selected, the quick view label is hidden.
           options
           Display       Quick view   A list of quick view forms that are displayed to app users.
           options       forms
                                      To configure the list of quick view forms
                                      Select Select forms ..., and then in the Lookup drop-down list select a lookup
                                      column where you want to display a quick view form.
      Area    Name   Description
                     Depending on the lookup column you select in the Lookup drop-down list,
                     you see lists that let you select quick view forms for one or more tables.
      See also
      Overview of the model-driven form designer
      Create, edit, or configure forms using the form designer
      Add, configure, move, or delete columns on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete sections on a form
      Add, configure, move, or delete tabs on a form
      Configure header properties in the form designer
      Add and configure a sub-grid component on a form
      Configure a lookup component on a form
      Using the tree view in the form designer
      Create and edit columns
      Last updated on 03/04/2026
     Configure a lookup component on a form
     Lookups help a user choose records from a related table. When you add a lookup column to a
     form, you automatically add a lookup component to the form.
     For example, by using a lookup component, you can open an account record that relates to a
     sales invoice record.
     Learn more about the lookup field user experience
     Configure a lookup component
     Makers configure a lookup component by using the form designer.
       1. While working in the form designer, select New table column. For Data type, select Lookup
        > Lookup.
       2. Save the column to edit the properties. These properties are available to configure when
        using a lookup component on a form by using the form designer.
                                                   ﾉ
                                                     Expand table
          Area           Name                Description
          Display        Label               The label text that displays next to the lookup column.
          options
          Display        Hide label          When enabled, the label isn't displayed.
          options
          Display        Hide on phone       When enabled, the lookup column doesn't display when running the
          options                            app on a phone.
          Display        Hide                Don't display the lookup column. You can then display the lookup
          options                            column by using code.
          Display        Lock                Make this column so that it can't be removed by you or other makers
          options                            until the Lock property is disabled.
          Display        Read-only           When this property is enabled, users can't change the value in the
          options                            lookup column.
          Display        Disable most        Disabling this option allows users to view recently used rows in the
          options        recently used       lookup dropdown list. Enabling this option disables the recent items.
                         items
          Display        Use Main Form       Enabling this option allows users to create rows in a pop out dialog for
          options        Dialog for Create   this lookup field, instead of closing the current form and navigating
                                             away.
          Display        Use Main Form       Enabling this option allows users to edit rows in a pop out dialog for
          options        Dialog for Edit     this lookup field, instead of closing the current form and navigating
                                             away.
          Display        Default view        The view of the table selected in the Table property that you can use to
          options                            get and display the list of rows that app users can select in the lookup
                                             drop-down list.
          Display        Allow users to      When selected, app users can change from the Default view to another
          options        change view         view of the table.
          Display        Show all views      When selected, app users can change from the Default view to all
          options                            other views of the table selected in the Table property.
                                             This property is only available when Allow users to change view is
                                             selected.
          Display        Selected views      A list of views of the table selected in the Table property that app users
          options                            can change to from the Default view.
                                             This property is only available when Allow users to change view is
                                             selected and Show all views is unselected.
           Area             Name                  Description
           Formatting       Form field width      Determines the width in number of columns for the lookup column.
           Filtering        Filter by related     When this option is enabled, you can filter this lookup based on a row
                            rows                  related to both the current table and this lookup. The rows that display
                                                  in this lookup when users search for a row have additional filtering
                                                  applied. This filter helps provide more relevant searches when setting
                                                  the value of the lookup.
                                                  By default, this option is turned off.
           Filtering        Relationship to       This dropdown list defines the relationship from the table of the related
                            current table         row you want to filter by to the target lookup's table.
                                                  The possible relationship combinations are listed in the table following
                                                  this one.
           Filtering        Relationship to       This dropdown list defines the relationship from the table of the related
                            this lookup's         row you want to filter by to the target lookup's table.
                            table
                                                  For the possible relationship combinations, see Table relationships
                                                  available for a lookup column.
           Filtering        Allow users to        When this option is enabled, users can turn off the filter you define.
                            turn off filter
           Components       +Component            Configure a control for the lookup column:
                                                  - Form. Add the form component control that lets users edit related
                                                  table records from the main form where the control resides.
                                                  - Additional lookup controls. Add additional functionality to the lookup
                                                  column.
          Lookup controls
          You can use several lookup controls with a lookup column. You might need to select +
          Component > Get more components > Add to make the control available for your form.
                Lookup (default). The default control when you create a lookup column. This control
                appears in the Components section when you add one of the other lookup controls. Select
                client type Web, Mobile, or Tablet. No other properties are available to configure. Add one
                of the following controls for extended functionality.
                Lookup Control (simple). By disabling the Lookup clickthrough value, makers can disable
                the clickthrough behavior on the lookup column. By default, lookup values in forms appear
                as hyperlinks, so users can open related records by selecting them. You might want to
                prevent users from navigating away from the current form.
               Drawer Lookup Control. This control is optimized for mobile and tablet and offers fewer
               clicks and a modern bottom sheet. It also allows makers to disable the clickthrough
               behavior on lookup fields by disabling the Lookup clickthrough value.
               Look-up Control (classic). This control has these two properties:
                  Related Virtual Entity. If there's a related table for the lookup that's a virtual table, you
                  can bind to table column and add a static value.
                  Virtual Entity Lookup View Id. Add an identifier for the virtual table lookup view.
         Multi-table lookups
         Lookup controls support all of the different types of lookups, including multi-table lookups.
         When you use a multi-table lookup on a form, the user sees only tables inside the model-driven
         app the lookup is currently in, even if the lookup column is configured to use tables not included
         in the model-driven app.
         Possible relationship combinations for a lookup column
                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
          Relationship to current table (Related       Relationship to this lookup's table (Related     Available?
          table > Current table)                       table > Lookup's table)
          1:N                                          1:N                                              Yes
          1:N                                          N:1                                              Yes
          1:N                                          N:N                                              Yes
          N:1                                          1:N                                              No
          N:1                                          N:1                                              No
          N:1                                          N:N                                              No
          N:1                                          Self                                             Yes
          N:N                                          1:N                                              No
          N:N                                          N:1                                              No
          N:N                                          N:N                                              No
          N:N                                          Self                                             Yes
         See also
     Overview of the model-driven form designer
     Table relationships
      Last updated on 07/08/2026
         Add agent response with the form designer
         (preview)
         08/06/2025
         [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
         Add the agent response component to a model-driven app form, which can directly call a
         Microsoft Copilot Studio topic and display the response to the user. This component builds on
         the Agent API executeEvent and simplifies usage by not requiring a new custom component.
         The implicit context of the app, page, and record are available in Copilot Studio.
         This component supports the following responses from Copilot Studio:
               Markdown
               Adaptive card
               Image
               Video
            ） Important
                 This is a preview feature.
                 Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted
                 functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use   , and are
                 available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
                 provide feedback.
         Prerequisites
         Requires the Allow users to analyze data using an AI-powered chat experience in canvas and
         model-driven apps environment setting enabled for model-driven apps. More information:
         Copilot environment settings
         Add an agent response component to a form
            1. Open the form designer to create or edit a form. More information: Create a form or Edit
               a form
            2. In the form designer, select Component on the command bar.
      3. In the Components pane, expand Artificial Intelligence
      4. Drag Agent Response onto the form canvas.
      5. In the Add Agent Response dialog, enter the Event name from the topic in Copilot Studio
       in the Static value box. More information: Find the event name for a topic in Copilot
       Studio
        ７ Note
        The Bind to table column option isn't supported for this component.
      6. Select Save and publish on the command bar.
      7. Open the form in a model-driven app to test the component.
        ７ Note
        The form designer preview displays the warning message "Agent Response is only
        available when you play the app" since live preview isn't yet supported.
      Find the event name for a topic in Copilot Studio
       1. Open the topic in Copilot Studio and find the Trigger node.
       2. Verify the trigger type is A custom client event occurs or Event received.
       3. Within the Trigger node, select Edit.
       4. Within the On Event Activity properties pane, copy the Event name property string value
         to be passed from the agent response component. More information: Change the trigger
         for a topic
      Accessing app context
      When the agent response component calls the Copilot Studio topic, it passes context for the
      app through a set of variables. The following are context variables available as Copilot Studio
      global variables.
                                                   ﾉ
                                                     Expand table
           Variable                                                                            Description
            Global.PA__Copilot_Model_PageContext.pageContext.id.guid                           ID of the table
                                                                                               record on the
                                                                                               main form
            Global.PA__Copilot_Model_PageContext.pageContext.entityTypeName                    Logical name of
                                                                                               the table in the
                                                                                               main page
            Global.PA__Copilot_Model_PageContext.pageContext.pageName                          Name of the
                                                                                               main page
            Global.PA__Copilot_Model_PageContext.pageContext.pageType                          Type of the main
                                                                                               page
            Global.PA__Copilot_Model_AppUniqueNameContext.appUniqueNameContext.appUniqueName   Unique name of
                                                                                               the model-driven
                                                                                               app
          Accessibility
          When the Copilot Studio response is an Adaptive Card, ensure the following best practices are
          followed to have an accessible experience.
                Design best practices - Adaptive Cards
                Image - Adaptive Cards
          Limitations
                Agent response component properties currently not supported:
                   Label
                   Hide label
                   Hide on phone
                   Lock
                   Read-only
                   Component width
                   Component height
                   Bind to table column
                Agent response component doesn't support passing additional context to Copilot Studio.
                Create a custom component using Agent API executeEvent to support passing more
                context.
        Agent response component only supports a read-only adaptive card. Create a custom
        component using Agent API executeEvent to support client side logic.
        Agent response component isn't supported for mobile or tablets.
     Related articles
     FAQ for Agent APIs and Agent response component
     Agent API executeEvent
     Overview of the model-driven form designer
     Add, configure, move, or delete components on a form
            Add a chart to a form
            Article • 03/13/2023
            A chart can be added to a form or an existing list to a chart can be updated. For
            example, the Child Accounts filtered sub-grid can be changed to display a chart instead
            of a list on the account main form.
               1. Sign into Power Apps   , and then select Solutions on the left navigation pane. If
                  the item isn’t in the left navigation pane, select …More and then select the item
                  you want.
               2. Open the solution and then open the table.
               3. Select the Forms area, and then open the form where you want to add a chart.
               4. On the form canvas, select an existing subgrid or add one. More information: Add
                  and configure a subgrid component on a form
               5. On the right properties pane for the subgrid, select the Show chart only option.
                  When enabled, this option displays the view in a chart format.
         6. Configure the subgrid properties for the chart, such as the default chart to display
          and whether users can change the chart displayed. More information: Configure a
          subgrid component
         7. Save and Publish the form to make the customization available to users.
       Add a chart to a form (classic)
         1. Sign into Power Apps, and then select Solutions on the left navigation pane. If the
          item isn’t in the left navigation pane, select …More and then select the item you
          want.
         2. Open the solution with the required table and open this table. Then select the
          Forms area.
         3. Open the required form. In the form designer select Switch to classic from the
          command bar.
         4. Add a sub-grid to the form, or to change an existing list in a sub-grid, double-click
          a sub-grid on the form.
       5. On the Set Properties page for the sub-grid, select the Show Chart Only option.
        When enabled, this option displays the view in a chart format.
       6. On the Set Properties page for the sub-grid, consider from the following options
        that affect how the chart is displayed, and then select OK. For more information
        about these properties, see Set properties for a model-driven app chart or list
        included in a dashboard.
           Records:
            Only Related Records: Shows the rows based on the selected view, but
            only with rows related to the table row.
            All Row Types: Shows all the rows based on the selected view.
             View Selector: When enabled, users can change to a different view, which
             displays the chart with different data and filtering that are associated with the
             view:
              Off. Don’t display the view selector. Users won’t be able to change views at
              runtime.
              Show All Views. Provide a full list of views associated with the value set in
              the Table property.
              Show Selected Views. Select this setting to limit the list of views available
              at runtime. To select the specific views to be displayed, hold down the Ctrl
              key and tap or select each view that needs to be included.
             Display Chart Selection: When enabled, users can change the type of chart,
             such as column, bar, or pie, on the form. If the user changes the type of chart,
             the settings aren’t saved. The chart type reverts to the Default Chart setting
             when the form is closed.
         7. Publish your customization.More information: Publish changes
       See also
       Create a model-driven app system chart
       Add a Power BI Visual to a model-driven app
       Configure a map on a form
       Article • 08/31/2023
       By default, the map control is configured on the main form for both the account and
       contact tables, which provides the ability to display a map on table records. Although
       not configured by default, the map control can be added to the system user table. The
       map control can also be used with some Dataverse standard tables and Dynamics 365
       apps tables. The map control can't be used with custom tables. More information: Tables
       that can be used with the map control
       When enabled, the map displays the location specified in the address composite
       columns for the given record.
       ） Important
                    To use the map component the Bing Maps setting must be On under the
                    Embedded content section of environment settings in the Power Platform
                    admin center. More information: Manage Bing Maps for your organization
                    A form can only have one map component.
            Tables that can be used with the map control
                  Contact
                  Account
                  System User
                             1
                  Competitor
                         1
                  Invoice
                        1
                  Quote
                            1
                  SalesOrder
                      1
                  Lead
            1
             Requires a customer engagement app.
            Add and configure a map for a system form
               1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
               2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane, and then select the table where you want
                  to configure a map on the main form. If the item isn’t in the left navigation pane,
                  select …More and then select the item you want.
               3. Select the Forms area, and then open the system main form you want.
               4. On the Components left pane, expand Display, and then select Map. Or, if the
                  map component is already on the form, select it on the form designer canvas.
            View and edit map properties
              Area         Property           Description
              Display      Label              Required: A label to display for the map.
              options
              Display      Hide label         Whether the label should be displayed.
              options
               Area           Property            Description
               Display        Hide                Showing the map is optional and can be controlled using
               options                            business rules or scripts. More information: Visibility options
               Display        Bing Maps           Choose which address should be used to provide data for
               options        address             the map.
               Formatting     Component width     When the section containing the map has more than one
                                                  column, you can set the column to occupy up to the number
                                                  of columns that the section has.
               Formatting     Use all available   You can allow the map height to expand to available space.
                              vertical space
              Configure a map using the classic form editor
              You can remove the maps area in the form editor or add it back by using the Bing Maps
              button on the Insert tab of the classic form editor. More information: Configure Bing
              Maps to be displayed on forms
              See also
              Create and design model-driven app forms
     Add table relationships to a form
     09/25/2025
     Creating a table relationship adds the navigation within a form that allows app users to view a
     list of related records from the Related tab in a model-driven app.
     Each table relationship has properties to control the relationship behavior. More information:
     Table relationship behavior
     Table relationships that are configured to be displayed can be hidden using the form designer.
     Add, edit, or create a related table in form designer
     (preview)
     [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
       ） Important
     This is a preview feature.
      1. Sign into Power Apps
      2. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane, open the solution that has the table you
       want, and then open the table. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and
       then select the item you want.
      3. Select Forms, and then open the main form where you want to add a related table.
      4. Select the Related tab. The Related menu appears:
         Add and edit an existing relationship. Select a table in the list to display the table
         properties in the right pane. Select Edit relationship to make changes to the
         relationship. More information: Add advanced relationship behavior
         Add a new relationship. Select + to Search for another relationship or select New
         relationship to create either a One-to-many relationship or Many-to-many
         relationship. More information: Add a One-to-many relationship and Add a Many-
         to-many relationship
      5. Save and Publish the change.
    Hide a relationship
      1. In form designer, select the Related tab, and then select the table where you want to hide
       a relationship.
      2. On the right properties pane, under Display options select Hide.
      3. Save and Publish the change.
    Relationship management limitations in form designer
        You can edit display options for system relationships but you can’t remove the
        relationship from the related menu. However, you can hide the relationship. More
        information: Hide a relationship
        You can’t edit or remove self many-to-many relationships.
        You can't add or edit related web resources or external URLs.
     Create navigation using the legacy experience
     To enable editing navigation first select Navigation from the Select group on the Home tab of
     the form designer.
     In the right pane, from Relationship Explorer you can filter by 1:N (one-to-many) or N:N
     (many-to-many) relationships, or view all available relationships. The Only show unused
     relationships checkbox is disabled and selected. Relationships are added one at a time.
     To add a relationship from the Relationship Explorer just double-click the relationship and it
     will be added below the currently selected relationship in the navigation area. Double-click a
     relationship in the navigation area and you can change the label on the Display tab. On the
          Name tab you can see information about the relationship. Use the Edit button to open the
          definition of the table.
          There are five groups in the navigation area. You can drag them to reposition them and
          double-click them to change the label, but you can’t remove them. These groups will only
          display when there is something in them. So if you don’t want a group to appear, just don’t
          add anything to it.
          Use the Navigation Link button in the Control group of the Insert tab to add a link to a web
          resource or external URL.
          Navigation link properties
          Navigation links have the following properties:
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
           Property        Description
           Name            Required: Text to display as a label.
           Icon            Use a 32x32 pixel web resource. Use a PNG image with a transparent background is
                           recommended.
           Web             Specify a web resource to display in the main pane of the form.
           Resource
           External URL    Specify the URL of a page to display in the main pane of the form.
          See also
    Create and edit table relationships for Microsoft Dataverse
       Manage model-driven app forms
       settings
       Article • 01/24/2025
       Power Apps forms settings are a set of capabilities that make it easy for model-driven
       app makers to configure and verify how users access forms in a solution or application.
       From Form settings, there are four different areas a maker can choose from:
          Set security roles for a form.
          Set the form order.
          Set the fallback form for a table.
          Form access checker.
       You can access form settings from the Forms area in Power Apps or command bar in the
       form designer.
       Set security roles for a form
       Different people in your organization might interact with the same data in different
       ways. Managers might depend on being able to quickly scan information in a row and
       service people might require a form that streamlines data entry. You can accommodate
       different requirements by assigning forms to the security roles that different groups of
       people belong to.
       When you have more than one main or other form type defined for a table, you can
       select which forms users are able to use based on their security roles. Because each
       table must be able to display a form for any user, at least one form must be designated
       as a ”fallback” form – a form visible to users whose security roles don't have any forms
       explicitly assigned to them.
         ７ Note
            Quick Create, Quick View, and Card forms can't be assigned to security roles.
            Another option makers have to control form access is to make a main form
            inactive. You can set an active or inactive state to main forms. This feature was
            included primarily to manage new forms included when Microsoft Dataverse
            environments upgrade but you can use it to prevent users from being able to
            use any main form.
      Assign a security role to a form
       1. Sign into Power Apps, select Solutions, open the solution you want, open a table,
        and then select the Forms area. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
        More and then select the item you want.
       2. Select the main form you want to configure the security roles for a form, and then
        on the command bar select Form settings.
       3. In the left navigation on the Form settings page, select Security role.
       4. Choose from the following options:
           To set the security roles for every user select Everyone.
           To set the access to the form for one or more specific security roles, select
           Specific security roles. Then, select the security roles you want to grant
           access from the list of security roles that are set up for your environment.
       5. Select Save and Publish.
       Set the form order
       When you have multiple main, quick create, quick view, or card forms for a table, you
       can assign a form order. The form order determines which of the available forms is
       shown by default. The available main forms can be further controlled by assigning
       security roles to the form.
       Notice that the form order doesn't set who can view the form that is managed by
       setting security roles. More information: Set security roles for a form
         1. Sign into Power Apps, select Solutions, open the solution you want, select a table,
          and then select the Forms area. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
          More and then select the item you want.
         2. Select the main form you want to configure the fallback form for, and then on the
          command bar select Form settings.
         3. In the left navigation on the Form settings page, select Form order.
         4. Select the form set that you want, such as Main Form, Quick Create Form, **Quick
          View Form, or Card Form.
         5. Change the order by dragging and dropping the form up and down the list in the
          order you want it to be shown to your users. You can also use these keyboard
          shortcuts: Tab/Tab + Shift to move the focus, Space to select or release a form, and
          Down/Up arrow keys to move a form.
         6. Select Save and publish.
          To set the form order using solution explorer, see Assign model-driven app form
          order.
       Set the fallback form for a table
      Setting the fallback form for a table is important to ensure that if a user doesn't have
      any assigned security roles or there are no assigned security roles for a main form type
      there's always a “default” form that shows for that table. Fallback forms are only
      available with main forms and don't apply to quick create, quick view, and card forms.
      There are a few different strategies to consider when you manage the fallback form for a
      table.
      All users view the same form
      If you don't require multiple forms for a table you don't need a fallback form.
      Create a contingency form
      If you're using role-based forms because you want to restrict the information people
      might view or edit, consider creating a form that has a minimum of information
      displayed. Then, select specific security roles, but don't select any roles except system
      administrator. The result is that this form will never be seen by anyone except users with
      the system administrator security role and anyone whose security roles haven't been
      associated with a specific form. You could include an HTML web resource in the form
      with information about why little information is visible in the form and a link to
      information about how to request being added to a security role that is associated with
      a from or to include a new security role for a form.
      Create a generic form
      If you use role-based forms to provide a customized experience based on a user’s role,
      you can set your least specialized form as the fallback form and configure it to display
      for everyone. Then, create customized forms for specific security roles and configure
      those forms to only display for security roles that require them. Don't enable these
      forms for fallback. Finally, in the Form settings configure the Form order to specify
      which forms to display ranking them from most exclusive to least exclusive. Your fallback
      form is at the bottom of the list. This strategy causes people seeing the form that has
      been customized for their role as the default form, yet they can use the form selector to
      select the most common form if they want. Whatever form they select remains their
      default form until they select a different form.
       1. Sign into Power Apps, select Solutions, open the solution you want, select a table,
        and then select the Forms area. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
        More and then select the item you want.
         2. Select the main form you want to configure the fallback form for, and then on the
          command bar select Form settings.
         3. In the left navigation on the Form settings page, select Fallback forms.
         4. To disable a form from the fallback order, clear the checkbox. In this example the
          Information form is removed from the fallback order.
          To enable a form for fallback select the checkbox next to the form to enable it.
         5. Select Save and publish.
       Use form scripting
       The Client API form context (formContext) provides a reference to the form or to an
       item on the form, such as, a quick view control or a row in an editable grid, against
       which the current code is executed. More information: Client API form context
        ） Important
        The Xrm.Page object is deprecated, and you should use the getFormContext
        method of the passed in execution context object to return reference to the
        appropriate form or an item on the form.
       See also
       Overview of the model-driven form designer
       Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Show or hide model-driven app form
       elements
       Article • 04/08/2022
       Several types of form elements have the option to be shown or hidden at app runtime.
       Tabs, sections, columns, iFrames, and web resources all provide this option. You can
       change the default setting to view a form element in the form designer by selecting the
       Hide property.
       Using form scripts or business rules, the visibility of these elements can be controlled to
       create a dynamic form to provide a user interface that adapts to conditions in the form.
        ） Important
        Hiding form elements is not a recommended way to enforce security. There are
        several ways people can view all the elements and data in the form when elements
        are hidden.
        Disabling, hiding, or locking a column, control, or form component using the form
        designer, manually in the form XML, or using a Client API only works to control
        data access in a Unified Interface or legacy web client app. It doesn’t strictly enforce
         data access by itself in the apps. Moreover, it doesn’t control data access using
         other ways to connect to Microsoft Dataverse such as using the Web service or a
         canvas app. It is also important to know that the app will not display an error
         message or block a save if a required column is null and has been disabled. This
         ensures that users are never blocked from completing a task. To control access, see
         Set security roles for a form or use Field-level security.
       Rather than designing forms that depend on scripts to control visibility of options,
       consider whether a business process flow, a dialog, or switching to a different form may
       be better suited to meet your requirements. If you do use scripts, make sure that any
       element that might be hidden is hidden by default. Only show it with scripts when your
       logic calls for it. This way it will not be displayed in presentations that do not support
       scripts.
       In Unified Interface, for sections where columns don’t span more than one column,
       hiding a column in the section moves the column below up on the form. If a column
       spans more than two columns in a section, hiding a column in the section that has a
       control across from it will not move the column below it up on the form. You will see
       additional white space where the hidden column is in the section.
       Client API methods for controlling the visibility
       of form elements
       For information about how to change the form element show or hide status for the
       header, command bar, and tabs at app runtime, see these client API reference articles:
          formContext.ui.headerSection item (Client API reference)
          formContext.ui.tabs (Client API reference)
       Next steps
       Overview of the form editor interface
       Use the model-driven app main form
       and its components
       Article • 03/04/2025
       Forms in model-driven apps provide the primary means by which users can update
       records. Forms associated with a table can be accessed via the table designer.
       The most versatile form type of the new form is Main. However, in addition to main
       forms, app makers can build quick create, quick view, or card forms. Learn more about
       other types of forms
       This article explains how to edit a main form, and add or change various elements of the
       form.
       Here's an example of a main form within an app. It has several tabs, in addition to
       exposing the timeline component and a quick view form providing more details
       associated with the primary contact.
       Open the form designer
       To edit a form, such as to add or change elements, use the form designer. The form
       designer lets a maker edit forms for all model-driven apps.
       Follow the procedures given below to access the form designer.
               ７ Note
               If you create any new solution components in the process of editing the form, the
               names of the components use the solution publisher customization prefix for the
               default solution and these components are only be included in the default
               solution. If you want any new solution components to be included in a specific
               unmanaged solution, open the form designer through that unmanaged solution.
               This helps with the application management lifecycle.
             Access the form designer for an unmanaged solution
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel
                  pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
                3. Open the unmanaged solution you want to work with. The solution type, managed
                  or unmanaged, is displayed in the Managed externally? column.
                4. In the list of components, locate the table with the form you want to edit. If the
                  table isn’t there, you need to add it.
             Add a table to an unmanaged solution
                1. With the unmanaged solution opened, on the command bar select Add Existing
                  and then select Table.
                2. All the available tables are listed. Select the table, and then select Next.
                3. Select the option that's most appropriate, and then select Add:
                       For a custom table, select Include all components.
                       For a standard table choose Select components, and then browse to and
                       select the main form you want to customize, and then select Add.
                4. The table is added to the solution. In the list of components, open the table, select
                  the Forms area, and then open form of type Main.
                5. In the form designer, make the changes you want.
                6. Save the form.
             Publish the changes for use in the app
             Certain customizations that make changes to the user interface require that they be
             published before people can use them in the application. To publish your customization,
             on the solution Objects area command bar, select Publish all customizations.
             Access the form designer through the default solution
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane.
                3. Select the table that you want, and then select the Forms area.
                4. In the list of forms, open the form of type Main.
               ７ Note
               If you have made other changes to the app, publish them using the app level
               publish option. Go to Validate and publish an app using the app designer for
               more information.
             Form designer user interface
             To understand in detail the form designer user interface, go to Overview of the model-
             driven form designer.
             Form properties
             To learn more about the form properties, go to Form properties.
             Visibility options
             Several types of form elements have the option to be shown or hidden by default. Tabs,
             sections, and columns all provide this option. When you use form scripts or business
             rules, the visibility of these elements can be controlled to create a dynamic form to
             provide a user interface that adapts to conditions in the form.
               ７ Note
               Hiding form elements isn't a recommended way to enforce security. There are
               several ways people can view all the elements and data in the form when elements
               are hidden. To learn more, go to Show or hide form elements.
       Tab properties
       In the body of a form, tabs provide horizontal separation. Tabs have a label that can be
       displayed. If the label is displayed, tabs can be expanded or collapsed to show or hide
       their content by choosing the label. To know in detail about the tab properties, go to
       Configure tabs on a form.
       Section properties
       A section in a form occupies the space available in a tab column. Sections have a label
       that can be displayed and a line might be shown below the label. To know in detail
       about the section properties, go to Configure sections on a form.
       Timeline
       The timeline shows related activities for a specific table.
       The types of activities supported are task, appointment, phone call, email, social activity,
       and custom activity.
       The timeline also shows notes and, system, and user posts. Timelines show those
       activities that have the Regarding column set to the table you’re viewing. For notes, the
       Regarding column isn’t shown to the user; It's implicit when created from the timeline.
       Each activity that’s shown in the timeline, has the same quick actions that are available
       on the activity’s command bar.
       Common column properties
       To know in detail about the common column properties, go to Configure column
       properties on a form.
       Special column properties
       All columns have the properties listed in Common column properties - legacy, but
       certain columns have additional properties. To know more, go to Special Column
       Properties - legacy.
       Subgrid properties
       You can configure a subgrid on a form to display a list of rows or a chart. To know in
       detail about the subgrid properties, go to Add and configure a subgrid component on a
       form.
       Quick view control properties
       A quick view control on a form displays data from a row that is selected in a lookup on
       the form. To explore the quick view control properties, go to Add and configure a quick
       view component on a form.
       Web resource properties
       You can add or edit web resources on a form to make it more appealing or useful to app
       users. Form enabled web resources are images or HTML files. These items are under
       found on the Components tab under Display in the form designer.
       External website
       You can add website content as an inline frame (iframe) to a form to integrate content
       from another website within the form. More information: Add an iframe to a model-
       driven app main form
       Edit navigation
       Navigation within the form allows people to view lists of related rows. Each table
       relationship has properties to control whether it should be shown. More information:
       Table relationships advanced options
       Any table relationships that are configured to display can be overridden within the form
       editor.
       For step-by-step instructions, go to Add form navigation for related tables.
       To enable editing navigation, you must first select Navigation from the Select group on
       the Home tab.
       In the Relationship Explorer, you can filter by 1:N (one-to-many) or N:N (many-to-many)
       relationships, or view all available relationships. The Only show unused relationships
       checkbox is disabled and selected. So you can only add each relationship one time.
              To add a relationship from the Relationship Explorer just double-click it and it will be
              added below the currently selected relationship in the navigation area. Double-click a
              relationship in the navigation area and you can change the label on the Display tab. On
              the Name tab, you can see information about the relationship. Use the Edit button to
              open the definition of the table.
              There are five groups in the navigation area. You can drag them to reposition them and
              double-click them to change the label, but you can’t remove them. These groups are
              displayed only when there's something in them. If you don’t want a group to appear,
              just don’t add anything to it.
              Configure event handlers
              An event handler consists of a reference to a JavaScript web resource and a function
              defined within that web resource that will execute when the event occurs. To know more
              about configuring event handlers, go to Configure event handlers.
              Next steps
              Create and design forms
              Create and edit quick create forms
              Create and edit quick view forms
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Add an iframe to a model-driven app
       main form
       Article • 03/04/2025
       With the external website component, you can add an inline frame (iframe) to a form to
       integrate content from another website within the form.
        1. Select Solutions on the left navigation pane, open the solution you want, and then
         open the table that you want to edit. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select
         …More and then select the item you want.
        2. Select Forms from the Data experiences area.
        3. In the list of forms, open a form of type Main.
        4. In the form designer, select the section of the canvas where you want to add the
         iframe.
        5. On the Components left pane, expand Display, select External website, enter the
         Site URL, and then select Done.
                                                                                     ﾉ
                                                                                        Expand table
                   Tab            Property              Description
                   Display        Label                 Required: A label to display for the iframe.
                   options
                   Display        Name                  Required: A unique name for the iframe. The
                   options                              name can contain only alphanumeric characters
                                                        and underscores.
                   Display        Hide label            Select if you want the label hidden.
                   options
                   Display        Hide                  You can hide the iframe so that it can be made
                   options                              visible by using scripts. More information: Visibility
                                                        options
                   Display        URL                   Required: The URL for the page to display in the
                   options                              iframe.
                   Formatting     Column width          When the section containing the iframe has more
                                                        than one column, you can set the column to
                                                        occupy up to the number of columns that the
                                                        section has.
                   Tab            Property              Description
                   Formatting     Component height      You can control the height of the iframe by
                                                        specifying a number of rows the control occupies.
                   Formatting     Use all available     Instead of setting the height by a number of rows,
                                  vertical space        you can allow the iframe height to expand to
                                                        available space.
                   Formatting     Scrolling             You have three options for scrolling behavior:
                                                        - As Necessary: Display scrollbars when the size of
                                                        the iframe is larger than the available space.
                                                        - Always: Always display scrollbars.
                                                        - Never: Never display scrollbars.
                   Formatting     Display border        Display a border around the iframe.
                   Dependencies   Table column          An iframe might interact with columns in the form
                                  dependencies          using script. If a column is removed from the form
                                                        the script in the iframe might break. Add any
                                                        columns referenced by scripts in the iframes to the
                                                        Table column dependencies so that they can't be
                                                        removed accidentally.
                   Advanced       Restrict cross-frame  It's considered a security risk allowing pages from
                                  scripting, where      a different web site to interact with the app using
                                  supported             scripts. Use this option to restrict cross frame
                                                        scripting for pages you don't have control over.
                   Advanced       Pass row object-type  Data about the organization, user, and the record
                                  code and unique       can be passed to the iframe. More information:
                                  identifiers as        Pass parameters to iframes
                                  parameters
                6. Save and Publish the form.
               ７ Note
                    If the web page doesn't appear in the iframe, it might be because the website
                    doesn't allow iframe rendering. When this occurs, the message URL refused to
                    connect is displayed in the iframe at runtime.
                    Forms aren't designed to be displayed within an iframe.
                    Authentication inside an iframe, either through a redirection or popups, isn't
                    supported on mobile.
             Pass parameters to iframes
             Information about the row can be passed by enabling the Pass row object-type code
             and unique identifiers as parameters option. The values passed are:
                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                       Expand table
              Parameter   Description
              orglcid     The organization default language LCID.
              orgname     The name of the organization.
              userlcid    The user's preferred language LCID
              type        The table type code. This value can be different for custom tables in different
                          organizations. Use typename instead.
              typename    The table type name.
              id          The ID value of the row. this parameter has no value until the table row is saved.
             Add an iframe using the classic form designer
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. Select Tables on the left navigation pane, and then open the table that you want. If
                  the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you
                  want.
                3. Select the Forms area.
                4. In the list of forms, open a form of type Main.
                5. Select Switch to classic to edit the form in the classic form designer.
                6. On the Insert tab, select IFRAME to view iframe properties.
                                                                                          ﾉ
                                                                                              Expand table
               Tab             Property                Description
               General         Name                    Required: A unique name for the iframe. The name can
                                                       contain only alphanumeric characters and underscores.
                               URL                     Required: The URL for the page to display in the iframe.
                               Pass row object-type    Data about the organization, user, and the row can be
                               code and unique         passed to the iframe. More information: Pass
                               identifiers as          parameters to iframes
                               parameters
                               Label                   Required: A label to display for the iframe.
                               Display label on the    Whether the label should be displayed.
                               Form
                               Restrict cross-frame    It's considered a security risk allowing pages from a
                               scripting, where        different web site to interact with the Dynamics 365
                               supported               application using scripts. Use this option to restrict
                                                       cross frame scripting for pages you don't have control
                Tab              Property                  Description
                                                           over.
                                 Visible by default        Showing the iframe is optional and can be controlled
                                                           using scripts. More information: Visibility options
                                 Enable for mobile         Select the checkbox to enable the iframe for mobile.
                Formatting       Select the number of      When the section containing the iframe has more than
                                 columns the control       one column, you can set the column to occupy up to
                                 occupies                  the number of columns that the section has.
                                 Select the number of      You can control the height of the iframe by specifying a
                                 rows the control          number of rows the control occupies.
                                 occupies
                                 Automatically expand      Instead of setting the height by a number of rows, you
                                 to use available space    can allow the iframe height to expand to available
                                                           space.
                                 Select the scrolling      You have three options:
                                 type for the iFrame
                                                           - As Necessary: Show scrollbars when the size of the
                                                           iframe is larger than the available space.
                                                           - Always: Always show scrollbars.
                                                           - Never: Never show scrollbars.
                                 Display border            Display a border around the iframe.
                Dependencies     Dependent columns         An iframe might interact with columns in the form
                                                           using script. If a column is removed from the form the
                                                           script in the iframe might break. Add any columns
                                                           referenced by scripts in the iframes to the Dependent
                                                           columns so that they can't be removed accidentally.
               Next steps
               Use the Main form and its components
               Feedback
               Was this page helpful?    Yes        No
               Provide product feedback
        Design productive main forms in model-
        driven apps
        Article • 04/08/2022
        Building experiences where tasks can be completed quickly and effectively is crucial to
        user satisfaction.
        Model-driven apps provide many options to build good user experiences, including:
            Application-level options.
            Site map organization options.
            Many form-creation options.
        This article shows how to design highly efficient and productive forms in a model-driven
        app, including how to work with:
            Main forms.
            Main form dialogs.
            Form component controls.
            Quick create forms.
            Quick view forms.
        Form layout and design are important to building better forms. However, it's also
        important to build forms that load quickly and allow for fast navigation within the form
        and across tabs.
        We also recommend an understanding of best practices for optimizing form
        performance and how to make forms load fast in your model-driven app. More
        information: Design forms for performance in model-driven apps
        Working with main forms
        Main forms are used in a model-driven app when working with and editing a specific
        record's data for a table to ensure that users interacting with that record stay within the
        constraints of the table structure.
        Building around table data
        A form allows an app maker to build around the table data, and often requires that you
        work with and interact with related records from other tables. One important
        consideration is how a model-driven form is bound to data. The out-of-the-box controls
       for a form are bound to fields from the table. These controls allow rapid development of
       a form for creating and editing data, but without more customization they aren't as
       flexible when using a form for multiple tasks that need user input, or where additional
       action is required before saving information.
       Use of related data
       One of the strengths of model-driven forms is the ease of use with standard (out-of-
       the-box) controls like lookups, subgrids, and reference panels to quickly view or edit
       related records. Forms also support custom Power Apps component framework controls
       to extend functionality beyond the standard controls. Forms primarily support child or
       secondary data relationships for a record; they don't easily support tertiary or higher-
       order relationships. For example, if there is an account record that has a one-to-one or
       one-to-many relationship with contacts, interactions with both the parent and child data
       can be quickly added with a form by using lookups that interact with other forms,
       including a main form dialog or embedded forms like a quick view or form component
       control. Each of these form types will be covered in more detail later in this article.
       Working with related data requires configuration, including using a main form dialog to
       work with related records of the main form dialog or using a custom canvas page.
       Multiple-entity forms can be created by using main form dialogs or form component
       controls. However, a main form doesn't directly support tertiary-related records on the
       main form.
       Understanding the main form layout
       The following image shows the layout of a Unified Interface application.
            Visual elements that are not a part of the form
                 The application header is part of the overall page structure of a model-driven app.
                 The app header contains the application name and app-level actions, which
                 include search, help, assistance, quick create forms, settings (personal and app
                 level for admins), and so on.
                 The application site map contains navigation across the application to pages that
                 are included in your application. The navigation experience provided by the site
                 map offers a quick way to access other areas of your application.
                 The form command bar is also not part of the main form. It can be configured and
                 set up by using the Ribbon Workbench   community plug-in for XrmToolBox  .
                 Navigation and interaction on the form can be customized. Several out-of-the-box
                 options include saving, creating a new record, sharing, merging, editing multiple
                 records, and so on.
                   ７ Note
                   Resources created by the community aren't supported by Microsoft. If you
                   have questions or issues with community resources, contact the publisher of
                   the resource.
            Visual elements that are a part of the form
                 The form header is part of the form. It includes the table and record name, the
                 ability to switch to additional forms for the table, four read-only fields of the
          record, and the tabs included on the form. Forms only appear in the form selector
          if they've been enabled and added to the app. More information: Create and
          design model-driven app forms.
          Form headers also have a mode where more than four fields can be added and
          provide a simple navigation to edit the fields in the header and any additional field
          you want a user to easily access from the form header. Additional tabs should be
          used to access information that isn't primary to the task at hand, or to focus the
          user on data or information that's specific to a given task but isn't primary to the
          job. Information that's necessary and is primary to working with data should be on
          the first tab and should not be hidden.
          The form body is the area on the form that should be used to interact with data of
          the record and any related records that are essential to completing a task. We
          recommend that you limit the data to the top tasks that need to be done on the
          first tab and move secondary tasks to additional tabs. building forms based on
          specific business needs and roles should also be considered when designing your
          application.
       If some data is rarely used you should consider building another form that can be
       accessed when a user needs to reference that data or information.
        ） Important
        Form footers are deprecated with the 2021 Release Wave 2 (August 2021 Preview /
        October 2021 GA). Remove any controls you have added out of the footer.
       Example scenario of productive form design
       The following scenario demonstrates the best use of a model-driven main form over
       data that uses the available controls.
       Imagine a scenario where a salesperson needs to maintain data for an account that also
       has the following form components:
          A primary contact (lookup).
          Additional contacts (subgrid).
          A reference panel where a user can select to see lists of related records with access
          to read-only views (quick view) in the reference panel. The reference panel includes
          a timeline control that's used to quickly access and create activities for that record.
       This form is in regular use, so it is worth spending time on the layout to ensure it is
       simple and efficient to operate.
      Account data
      The first section on the form contains the fields that are used to manage the data and
      information for that record. Here, a user can quickly review and edit information they
      use throughout their workday. Points to note:
        Required fields and most-used fields are at the top of this section.
        A quick view form of the primary contact is added at the top so users can quickly
        view and use the information to contact the individual who's important for their
        daily tasks.
      Related contacts with a subgrid
      To the right of the account information section is the contact table subgrid. It shows all
      the contact records that are related to the main record. This allows the user speedy
      interaction with the contact record related to the account.
      Quick access to multiple related records with the
      reference panel
      Next to the contact subgrid is the reference panel. This control can give even further
      access to related records that go beyond just the contacts. A subgrid helps drive data
      density and efficiencies when working across all related records of the main form. In this
      example, the reference panel includes contacts, opportunities, leads, and products. One
      limitation of the reference panel is that it only provides read-only views of records. It
      doesn't support a main form of a related record like a main form dialog or a form
      component does. Reference panels are best used when you want to quickly view
      information of a related record.
      Currently, you add a reference panel control by using the classic form designer. On the
      Insert tab, expand Sections, and then select Reference panel.
      Account activities with the timeline control
       Below the contacts subgrid is the activities timeline wall. The timeline control allows a
       user to quickly view recent information about activities that have an activity record
       associated to the account. Available activities found in a timeline are emails, phone calls,
       notes, appointments, and tasks. Users can also send new emails, log new phone calls,
       and add notes quickly and easily from the control. More information: Set up the timeline
       control
       Working with data on a main form best
       practices
          If additional requirements are added to data on the form that isn't configured on
          the table, it's important to make sure that the data that's required is always visible
          and editable—for example, a required field for a user that's based on a business
          rule. If a field is required and made read-only, it will block users from completing
          tasks and can create frustration and dissatisfaction. Although hidden and read-only
          components are supported by the Power Apps platform, it's important to know
          that if a user saves data on a form that includes a required field that isn't editable,
          the save will be processed. This ensures that a user is never blocked from
          completing a task based on a bad design pattern.
          Hidden fields can be used like read-only fields and are handy when building data-
          dense forms. However, the same caution applies as when working with required
          fields: A required field may not be hidden if it can be null when editing a record.
          Business rules or events can be used to hide or show fields on a form; however, the
          form will behave the same as a read-only field when it's being saved. Model-driven
          forms will always allow for the save if a field is required but hidden on the form.
          If data needs to always be available, regardless of the tab a user is on, it's vital to
          add that data to the header. It's important to know that the high-density headers
          in Unified Interface will only display up to four read-only fields. However, you can
          use the high-density headers with a flyout to add additional fields that also allow
          users to edit fields. This streamlines the experience to quickly access and edit
          information that you always want to make available without multiple clicks or
          additional navigation.
       Building multiple-entity forms
       The previous section provided good examples of how to work with data that's directly
       related to a record. However, what can drive even further efficiencies is working with
       related data directly from the main form, without navigating away. This keeps the user in
       context, and reduces friction and improves satisfaction by streamlining experiences
       using a main form dialog or a form component control.
       The following sections walk through several scenarios that show how to build highly
       performant multiple-entity forms. The goal is to streamline user experiences that reduce
       clicks and unnecessary navigation, and speed up daily tasks that often require a user to
       interact with related records on a main form. Form components used for efficiency
       described here include:
          Main form dialog.
          Main form component control.
          Quick create form.
          Quick view form.
       Using a main form dialog
       Using a main form dialog is powerful when you need to have users access, and—more
       importantly—interact with, all the information of a related record. This includes when
       users need to work with a business process flow, access all the tabs, or access all the
       related records on the form. This is important when there are business processes that
       drive requirements on a related record that need to be followed to ensure data integrity.
        Users need access to timeline activities or related records of the child record without
        additional navigation. Note that a main form dialog can be configured directly from the
        lookup control and can be used on the command bars or with JavaScript by using the
        navigateTo client API. The dialog can be positioned on the left, middle, or right side of
        the page as a modal dialog overlay. More information: Open main form in a dialog
        using client API
        In this example, a user needs to access the primary contact record, update the phone
        number, add a note in the activities timeline, and create a new appointment from the
        contact form. To streamline this experience by reducing clicks and unnecessary
        navigation, the lookup control is configured to open the contact main form as a dialog.
        This example shows how the main form dialog can use quick create forms from the
        related record, incorporate duplicate records, and allow the user to fully interact with
        data on the related record.
        Using the form component control
        Often you only need to edit information on a related record that doesn't require the
        user to interact with the entire form and doesn't require an additional business process
        flow, but you don't want to give users the ability to navigate to the related form. To
        accomplish this scenario and streamline managing data inline on the main form, you can
        use a form component control. The form component control provides the user with
        access to the related record, including all the sections, controls, and fields on the related
        record form. Form components can also be used for specific actions with forms
        designed for only that task. An example of this is the Microsoft Dynamics Field Service
        Mobile experience. Form components are used to manage work orders and tasks related
        to those work orders in a streamlined and more efficient process.
      Note that a form component control will use any form that you've created for that
      record and it will honor any event, including loading a form, saving data, or on change
      information. It will also honor any business rules and actions on the form, including
      opening a main form dialog from a lookup (if you've configured the form to work in that
      manner). It will also include any duplicate detection rules and parent/child relationships
      when working with data in the related record form component. The form control
      component promotes unsaved changes to the main form, and notifies users when a
      field is required and if there are data entry errors on the related form component. More
      information: Edit related table records directly from another table’s main form
      In this example, a user is editing the primary contact information directly on the account
      main form and scrolls down the form to create a new appointment for the primary
      contact without leaving the account form.
      Using quick create forms
      There will be times when you want to create an experience where users can quickly
      create records without additional navigation or clicks. A quick create form is a good
      solution for this. It can be used in multiple scenarios, which include creating
      appointments from an activity timeline wall, creating a contact from a lookup if a main
      form dialog isn't needed, or quickly creating a record—like an account or contact that
      doesn't require additional relationships for data integrity—from a view page (app menu
      + option). More information: Create or edit model-driven app quick create forms for a
      streamlined data entry experience
      In the following example, a user needs to quickly create a lead by using the + menu
      option in the app header.
      In this example, the quick create form is used to create an appointment for a contact
      from the timeline wall.
      In this example, a user can quickly create an opportunity from a quote record form by
      using a lookup control.
       ７ Note
       Opportunity and quote tables require a Dynamics 365 customer engagement app,
       such as Dynamics 365 Sales.
      Using quick view forms to see data from related tables
      In many scenarios, a user just needs to quickly view information from a related table
      without having to interact with it. To facilitate these scenarios, you can use quick view
      forms. An example of where a quick view form is used is in the reference panel of a main
      record. This demonstrates the power of accessing multiple related records without
      having to navigate away.
       ７ Note
       While it is called a quick view form, it is in principle, a read only view of data. Users
       can't use this control to edit data.
      More information: Create a model-driven app quick view form to view information
      about a related table
       Using form display options to simplify forms
       There are many times when you need to build an experience that focuses the user on
       the task at hand without additional distraction that might cause inefficiency. This is
       especially important when you're working with tables and records that have global
       components, which are created and automatically added to forms regardless of the task
       you're trying to build. Although this provides a shareable and easy-to-build
       infrastructure that drives consistency across an app, it does at times provide
       unnecessary distraction.
       Form display options should be used when you want to lessen the number of actions,
       focus a user to complete a task, and reduce clutter by removing unnecessary
       components. Components that can be removed from a form include the command bar,
       the header body, and the form tabs.
       All these types of options are only available via the client API and manual formxml
       updates. Manual formxml manipulation can cause issues importing solutions if done
       incorrectly. Remove global form components carefully when designing your form.
       Navigation considerations
       When certain components are hidden like the command bar or the tab list, this may
       remove navigation that might be necessary to complete a task. Be sure to account for
       those requirements in your form design by using additional controls created with the
       Power Apps component framework.
      In this example, the command bar has been removed to reduce any unnecessary actions
      when working with an account. The command bar would ordinarily be shown as follows.
      This form has been designed to not need the command bar, so the maker has removed
      it to keep the user on task. More information: setCommandBarVisible (Client API
      reference)
      In this example, the header has been removed to promote a dense form that focuses
      the user on record details. This should only be used if the header doesn't provide
      additional value or displays information that doesn't always need to be available to a
      user. More information: setBodyVisible (Client API reference)
      In this example, the tabs have been removed. This can be helpful when you build a form
      that only has a single tab or you want to focus the user on the first tab of a form without
      the distractions of additional tabs that can lead to loss in productivity for a specific task.
      More information: setTabNavigatorVisible (Client API reference)
      Form display option to use the entire space of a tab
      In many scenarios, a form might exist with a tab and a single control, and you want that
      control to take up the entire available space within the body of the form on that tab.
      This can be done by using the form display option that allows the first control on a
      page in a tab to expand the full height and width of the form. All existing reflow
      rendering across view port sizes from large to small is honored, and will behave like a
      regular form except that the control will use the entire space. In this example, the
      Dynamics 365 Marketing application supports a full tab layout for the customer journey
      experience. The command bar is removed to further reduce clutter and ensure that the
      user is focused on the task of managing customer journeys in the application. More
      information: setContentType (Client API reference)
      Next steps
      Design forms for performance
     Design forms for performance in model-
     driven apps
     Building experiences where tasks can be completed quickly and efficiently is crucial to user
     satisfaction. Model-driven apps can be highly customized to create experiences that meet the
     needs of your users, but it is important to know how to effectively code, build, and run model-
     driven apps that load quickly when a user opens and navigates in your app while working on
     daily tasks. Performance has been shown to be a key driver of dissatisfaction of an app when it is
     not optimized for performance.
     Intelligent customizations and performant forms are important aspects to building highly
     efficient and productive forms. It's also important to make sure you're building highly productive
     forms with the best practices in user interface design and layout. For information about designing
     forms for efficiency and productivity, see Design productive main forms in model-driven apps.
     It is also important to ensure users are on recommended and supported devices and minimum
     required specifications. More information: Supported web browsers and mobile devices
     Working with data and tabs
     This section covers how controls that display data and tabs impact form performance.
     Significance of the default tab
     The default tab is the first expanded tab on a form. It plays a special role in the loading of a form
     page. By design, the controls of the default tab are always rendered when opening a record.
     Specifically, the control initialization logic, such as data retrieval, is invoked for every control on
     the tab.
     In contrast, a secondary tab does not perform this initialization on its controls when the form is
     initially loaded. Instead, the control initialization occurs at the time the secondary tab is opened
     either through user interaction or calling the setFocus client API method. This provides an
     opportunity to shelter the initial form load from excessive control processing by placing certain
     controls in secondary tabs instead of the default tab. Thus, the control placement strategy can
     have a significant effect on the responsiveness of the initial form load. A more responsive default
     tab provides a better overall experience for modifying important fields, interacting with the
     command bar, and exploring other tabs and sections.
     Always put controls that are used the most at the top of your default tab. Layout and information
     architecture is not only important for performance but also to improve productivity when users
     interact with data on the form. More information: Design productive main forms in model-driven
     apps
     Data-driven controls
     Controls that require extra data beyond the primary record produce the most strain on form
     responsiveness and loading speed. These controls fetch data over the network and often involve
     a waiting period (seen as progress indicators) because it can take time to transmit the data.
     Some of the data-driven controls include:
        Quick view form
        Subgrid
        Timeline
        Assistant (requires Dynamics 365 Sales Insights)
     Keep only the most frequently used of these controls on the default tab. The remaining data-
     driven controls should be distributed into secondary tabs to allow the default tab to load quickly.
     Furthermore, this layout strategy reduces the chance of fetching data that ends up being unused.
     There are other controls that are less impactful than the data-driven controls but can still
     participate in the above layout strategy in order to achieve the best performance. These controls
     include:
        Lookup
        iFrame
        Web resource
     Web browser
     This section covers good practices to use with web browsers.
     Don't open new windows
     The openForm client API method allows a parameter option to display a form in a new window.
     Don't use this parameter or set it to false. Setting it to false will ensure the openForm method
     performs the default behavior of displaying the form using the existing window. It is also possible
     to directly call the window.open JavaScript function from a custom script or another application;
     however, this should also be avoided. Opening a new window means that all of the page
     resources need to be fetched and loaded from scratch since the page is unable to leverage the
     in-memory data caching capabilities between a previously loaded form and the form in a new
     window. As an alternative to opening new windows, consider using the multisession experience
     that allows records to be opened in multiple tabs while still maximizing the performance benefits
     of client caching.
     Use modern browsers
     Using the most up-to-date web browser is key to ensuring your model-driven app runs as fast as
     possible. The reason for this is that many of the performance improvements can only be used in
     the newer modern browsers.
     For example, if your organization has older versions of Firefox, non-Chromium-based browsers,
     and so on, many of the performance gains that are built into a model-driven app will not be
     available in the older browser versions because they don't support features that the app depends
     on to run quickly and smoothly.
     In most cases, you can expect to see page load improvements by just switching to Microsoft
     Edge, updating to the latest current browser version from an older version, or moving to a
     modern Chromium-based browser.
     JavaScript customization
     This section covers how to make intelligent customizations when you use JavaScript that help you
     build performant forms and pages in a model-driven app.
     Using JavaScript with forms
     The ability for forms to be customized by JavaScript provides professional developers great
     flexibility over how a form looks and behaves. The improper use of this flexibility can negatively
     impact form performance. Developers should use the following strategies to maximize form
     performance when implementing JavaScript customizations.
     Use asynchronous network requests when requesting data
     Request data asynchronously rather than synchronously when extra data is necessary for
     customizations. For events that support waiting for asynchronous code like the form OnLoad and
     form OnSave events, event handlers should return a Promise in order for the platform to wait
    until the Promise is settled. The platform will show an appropriate UI while the user waits for the
    event to complete.
    For events that do not support waiting for asynchronous code, like the form OnChange event, you
    can use a workaround to stop interaction with a form while the code is doing an asynchronous
    request by using showProgressIndicator. This is better than using synchronous requests because
    users will still be able to interact with other parts of the application as a progress indicator is
    displayed.
    Here's an example using asynchronous code in synchronous extension points.
     JavaScript
     //Only do this if an extension point does not yet support asynchronous code
     try {
       await Xrm.WebApi.retrieveRecord("settings_entity", "7333e80e-9b0f-49b5-92c8-
     9b48d621c37c");
       //do other logic with data here
     } catch (error) {
       //do other logic with error here
     } finally {
       Xrm.Utility.closeProgressIndicator();
     }
     // Or using .then/.finally
     Xrm.Utility.showProgressIndicator("Checking settings...");
     Xrm.WebApi.retrieveRecord("settings_entity", "7333e80e-9b0f-49b5-92c8-9b48d621c37c")
       .then(
          (data) => {
            //do other logic with data here
          },
          (error) => {
            //do other logic with error here
          }
       )
       .finally(Xrm.Utility.closeProgressIndicator);
    You should be careful when using asynchronous code in an event handler that does not support
    waiting for asynchronous code. This is particularly true for code that needs an action to be taken
    or handled on the resolution of the asynchronous code. Asynchronous code can cause issues if
    the resolution handler expects the application context to remain the same as it was when the
    asynchronous code was started. Your code should check that the user is in the same context after
    each asynchronous continuation point.
    For example, there may be code in an event handler to make a network request and change a
    control to be disabled based on the response data. Before the response from the request is
    received, the user may have interacted with the control or navigated to a different page. Because
    the user is on a different page, the form context may not be available, which might lead to errors,
    or there might be other undesired behavior.
    Async support in form OnLoad and form OnSave events
    The form OnLoad and OnSave events support handlers that return promises. The events will wait
    for any promises returned by a handler to resolve, up to a timeout period. This support can be
    enabled via app settings.
    More information:
       Form OnLoad
       Form OnSave
       Interact with HTTP and HTTPS resources asynchronously
    Limit the amount of data requested during form load
    Only request the minimum amount of data that is necessary to perform business logic on a form.
    Cache the data that is requested as much as possible, especially for data that doesn’t change
    often or doesn’t need to be fresh. For example, imagine there is a form that requests data from a
    setting table. Based on data in the setting table, the form might choose to hide a section of the
    form. In this case, the JavaScript can cache data in sessionStorage so that data is only requested
    once per session (onLoad1). A stale-while-revalidate strategy might also be used where the
    JavaScript uses the data from sessionStorage while requesting data for the next navigation to the
    form (onLoad2). Finally, a deduplication strategy could be used in case a handler is called multiple
    times in a row (onLoad3).
     JavaScript
     const SETTING_ENTITY_NAME = "settings_entity";
     const SETTING_FIELD_NAME = "settingField1";
     const SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY = 
     `${SETTING_ENTITY_NAME}_${SETTING_FIELD_NAME}`;
     // Retrieve setting value once per session
     async function onLoad1(executionContext) {
       let settingValue = sessionStorage.getItem(SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY);
       // Ensure there is a stored setting value to use
       if (settingValue === null || settingValue === undefined) {
          settingValue = await requestSettingValue();
       }
       // Do logic with setting value here
     }
     // Retrieve setting value with stale-while-revalidate strategy
     async function onLoad2(executionContext) {
       let settingValue = sessionStorage.getItem(SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY);
         // Revalidate, but only await if session storage value is not present
       const requestPromise = requestSettingValue();
       // Ensure there is a stored setting value to use the first time in a session
       if (settingValue === null || settingValue === undefined) {
          settingValue = await requestPromise;
       }
       // Do logic with setting value here
     }
     // Retrieve setting value with stale-while-revalidate and deduplication strategy
     let requestPromise;
     async function onLoad3(executionContext) {
       let settingValue = sessionStorage.getItem(SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY);
       // Request setting value again but don't wait on it
       // In case this handler fires twice, don’t make the same request again if it is 
     already in flight
       // Additional logic can be added so that this is done less than once per page
       if (!requestPromise) {
          requestPromise = requestSettingValue().finally(() => {
            requestPromise = undefined;
          });
       }
       // Ensure there is a stored setting value to use the first time in a session
       if (settingValue === null || settingValue === undefined) {
          settingValue = await requestPromise;
       }
       // Do logic with setting value here
     }
     async function requestSettingValue() {
       try {
          const data = await Xrm.WebApi.retrieveRecord(
            SETTING_ENTITY_NAME,
            "7333e80e-9b0f-49b5-92c8-9b48d621c37c",
            `?$select=${SETTING_FIELD_NAME}`);
          try {
            sessionStorage.setItem(SETTING_VALUE_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY, 
     data[SETTING_FIELD_NAME]);
          } catch (error) {
            // Handle sessionStorage error
          } finally {
            return data[SETTING_FIELD_NAME];
          }
       } catch (error) {
                  // Handle retrieveRecord error   
             }
         }
        Use information available in the client API rather than make requests. For example, rather than
        request a user’s security roles on form load, you can use getGlobalContext.userSettings.roles.
        Load code only when it’s needed
        Load as much code as needed for events for a particular form. If you have code that is only for
        form A and form B, it shouldn't be included in a library that is loaded for form C. It should be in its
        own library.
        Avoid loading libraries in the OnLoad event if they are only used for the OnChange or OnSave
        events. Instead, load them in those events. This way the platform can defer loading them until
        after the form loads. More information: Optimize form performance
        Remove usage of console APIs in production code
        Don't use the console API methods   such as console.log in production code. Logging data to
        the console can significantly increase memory demand and might prevent data from being
        cleaned up in memory. This can lead to the app becoming slower over time and eventually
        crashing.
        Avoid memory leaks
        Memory leaks in your code can lead to slower performance over time and eventually cause your
        app to crash. Memory leaks occur when the application fails to release memory when no longer
        needed. With all customizations and code components on your form, you should:
             Thoroughly consider and test scenarios for anything responsible for cleaning up memory,
             like classes responsible for managing lifecycle of objects.
             Cleanup all event listeners and subscriptions, especially if it’s on the window object.
             Cleanup all timers like setInterval.
             Avoid, limit, and cleanup references to global or static objects.
        For custom control components, cleanup can be done in the destroy method.
        For more information on fixing memory problems, go to this Edge developer documentation.
        Tools you can use to help make apps performant
        This section describes the tools that can help you understand performance issues and offer
        recommendations about how to optimize your customizations in model-driven apps.
        Solution checker
        Solution checker is a powerful tool that can analyze client and server customizations for
        performance or reliability issues. It can parse client-side JavaScript, form XML, and .NET server-
        side plug-ins and give targeted insights into what may slow end users down. We recommend that
        you run solution checker each time you publish changes in a development environment, so that
        any performance concerns are surfaced before reaching end users. More information: Use
        solution checker to validate your model-driven apps in Power Apps
        Some examples of performance-related issues found with solution checker:
             il-specify-column. Avoid selecting all columns via Dataverse query APIs.
             web-use-async. Interact with HTTP and HTTPS resources asynchronously.
             web-avoid-ui-refreshribbon  . Avoid using refreshRibbon in form OnLoad and EnableRule.
        Object checker
        Object checker runs real-time diagnostics on component objects within your solution. If issues
        are detected, a recommendation is returned that describes how to fix the issue. More
        information: Use object checker to diagnose a solution component (preview)
        Next steps
        Design productive main forms in model-driven apps
         Last updated on 05/21/2026
     Embed a Power BI report in a model-driven
     app main form
     You can use Power BI reports in Power Apps model-driven apps to bring rich reporting and
     analytics to your main forms and empower your users to accomplish more. This unlocks the
     power to aggregate data across systems, and tailor it down to the context of a single record.
     Prerequisites
     Embedding Power BI content is an optional feature and is disabled on all environments by
     default. You must enable it before you can embed Power BI content. More information: Enable
     Power BI visualizations in the organization.
     This feature requires exporting a solution, modifying it to replace the XML snippet, and then
     importing back into the environment. Be sure to import the changes on your development
     environment via an unmanaged solution only. Go to Import, update, and export solutions for
     guidance on installing an update to an existing unmanaged solution.
     Embed without contextual filtering
     You can use Power BI reports by embedding them, and get the exact same report. This doesn't
     involve contextualizing them to the current model-driven form, and hence you get the same
     report on all records of the table. For example, the following report shows the geographic
     location of all accounts at once, and is useful to show summary information.
    You can customize a main form XML controls node so that it can host an embedded Power BI
    report and tile by following these steps:
      1. In your development environment, create a solution and add the table that contains the
       main form where you want the embedded Power BI report to display. Choose the Select
       components option when you add the table to the solution. Then, add just the table's
       main form.
      2. Edit the table's main form in your solution and add a placeholder subgrid where you want
       to embed your Power BI report.
         Update the label and name of your subgrid in the form designer.
                                           
      3. Export the solution as unmanaged and extract all files in the solution package zip file.
       Then, edit the customizations.xml file and find the name of your subgrid. Replace the XML
              code provided inside the <control> block in the customizations.xml file. The rowspan in
              the parent cell node can be adjusted to change the size of the embedded Power BI
              report.
                XML
                <cell id="{7d18b61c-c588-136c-aee7-03e5e74a09a1}" showlabel="true" 
                rowspan="20" colspan="1" auto="false" solutionaction="Added">
                 <labels>
                    <label languagecode="1033" description="Accounts (Parent Account)"/>
                 </labels>
                 <control id="unfilteredreport" classid="{8C54228C-1B25-4909-A12A-
                F2B968BB0D62}">
                    <parameters>
                        <PowerBIGroupId>00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000</PowerBIGroupId>
                        <PowerBIReportId>544c4162-6773-4944-900c-
                abfd075f6081</PowerBIReportId>
                        <TileUrl>https://app.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=544c4162-6773-
                4944-900c-abfd075f6081</TileUrl>
                    </parameters>
                 </control>
                </cell>
                ） Important
                Be sure to use the control classid="{8C54228C-1B25-4909-A12A-F2B968BB0D62}" as
                indicated in the XML sample.
                   Make the following changes to the form XML that you copied into the
                   customizations.xml file for your Power BI report. This table describes the values you
                   need to change to the elements in the previous XML sample.
                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
               Property         Description
               PowerBIGroupId   The Power BI workspace ID. If your report is in My workspace, then the
                                workspace ID is 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000. Otherwise, add the
                                workspace ID. You can find the ID of the workspace in the Power BI service URL.
                                More information: Find the Power BI workspace and report Ids.
               PowerBIReportId  The Power BI report ID. Replace this with the report that you want to embed.
                                You can find the ID of your report in the Power BI service URL. More
                                information: Find the Power BI workspace and report Ids
            Property     Description
            TileUrl      The Power BI report URL that you want to embed. Be sure to use the correct
                         Power BI subdomain name (you might need to replace app.powerbi.com with
                         your own) and report ID (replace reportId=544c4162-6773-4944-900c-
                         abfd075f6081 with your own). For example,
                         https://app.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=544c4162-6773-4944-900c-
                         abfd075f6081.
         4. Create a zip file out of all the solution files previously extracted. Then, import the solution
           into the development environment.
       Embed with contextual filtering
       You can make Power BI reports more meaningful by applying contextual filters to the current
       model-driven form, so that the report is filtered based on attributes of the current row. For
       example, the following report shows the geographic location of an account, by filtering the
       Power BI report using the account name. This allows a single report to show contextualized
       information for all rows of the table.
       The filtering is done by adding a <PowerBIFilter> element in the <parameter> block as shown
       here. You can use any attribute of the form's table to construct the filter expression. More
       information: Constructing Filters to understand how to create your own filters.
        XML
        <control id="filteredreport" classid="{8C54228C-1B25-4909-A12A-F2B968BB0D62}">
            <parameters>
               <PowerBIGroupId>00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000</PowerBIGroupId>
                      <PowerBIReportId>544c4162-6773-4944-900c-abfd075f6081</PowerBIReportId>
                      <TileUrl>https://xyz.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=544c4162-6773-4944-
            900c-abfd075f6081</TileUrl>
                      <PowerBIFilter>{"Filter": "[{\"$schema\":\"basic\",\"target\":
            {\"table\":\"table_name_of_power_bi_dataset\",\"column\":\"power_bi_field\"},\"oper
            ator\":\"In\",\"values\":[$a],\"filterType\":1}]", "Alias": {"$a": 
            "field_name_in_powerapps_to_filter"}}</PowerBIFilter>
                 </parameters>
            </control>
          Note that this uses the same control as the unfiltered report embedding, and hence the control
          class ID remains unchanged.
          This table describes any additional properties used in the previous XML sample.
                                                                                                ﾉ Expand table
           Property        Description
           PowerBIFilter   The filter expression that contextualizes the Power BI report by passing the form
                           attributes as parameters. To make it more readable, the filter is constructed as shown
                           here. The filter expression can't be a comma separated list of values.
            JSON
                 {
                         "Filter": "[{
                                 \"$schema\":\"basic\",
                                 \"target\":{
                                         \"table\":\"table_name_of_power_bi_dataset\",
                                         \"column\":\"power_bi_field\"
                                 },
                                 \"operator\":\"In\",
                                 \"values\":[$a, $b],
                                 \"filterType\":1
                         }]",
                         "Alias": {
                                 "$a": "field1_name_in_powerapps_to_filter",
                                 "$b":"field2_name_in_powerapps_to_filter"
                         }
                 }
          The target part of the previous expression identifies the table and the column to apply the
          filters on. The operator identifies the logic and values identify the data passed from the Power
          Apps model-driven app. To parameterize in a generic way, the values are constructed by
          aliasing. In the previous expression, the value of an account's firstname and lastname are
          passed, and either of them is searched in the Account Name column in the Power BI report.
     Note that firstname and lastname are the unique names of attributes of the account table,
     whose value will be passed here.
     You can create more complex filter expressions by looking at examples from Constructing
     Filters and providing the appropriate values for $schema and filterType. Be sure to escape
     every literal in the filter part using ", so that the JSON is generated correctly.
     Find the Power BI workspace and report Ids
       1. The workspace ID for this example is efc85277-2bdb-47bc-9762-363f64335108.
       2. The report ID for this example is 643ab643-7126-4a57-bd82-ca8f1fb676fc.
                                                    
     Known issues and limitations
        Opening this form in the Power Apps form designer doesn't show the control in a
        meaningful way. This is because the control is customized outside of the form designer.
        Users are authenticated into Power BI automatically with their Power Apps username and
        password. If a Power BI account with matching credentials doesn’t exist, a sign-in prompt
        is displayed as illustrated here.
       No data displays if an incorrect account is used to log into Power BI. To sign in with the
       correct credentials, sign out, and then sign in again.
        The view of the report data shown inside Power Apps is the same as Power BI, and Power
        Apps security roles and privileges don't affect the data that is displayed. Hence, the data
        is essentially the same as what the creator of the Power BI dataset would see. To apply
        data access restrictions similar to Power Apps security roles and teams, use Row-level
        security (RLS) with Power BI.
        If the form doesn’t show the Power BI report after importing the solution and publishing
        customizations, open it in the model-driven form designer and save it, so that the form
        JSON is regenerated.
        Embedding a Power BI tile on a form is only supported without contextual filtering.
        Embedding a Power BI report doesn't support cross-tenant references. For example,
        trying to embed a Power BI report belonging to the Contoso tenant in a model-driven
        app belonging to the Fabrikam tenant isn't currently supported, even if the report being
        embedded has been shared with users in the Fabrikam tenant via Power BI.
        Pinned reports as part of Power BI dashboards aren't meant to be interactive. If you want
        to have interactive Power BI reports, embed them directly instead of pinning them to a
        dashboard.
     Common issues
        The group ID isn't specified in the TileUrl node of the control parameters when it might
        need to be. This example includes a group ID.
      XML
      <parameters>
         <PowerBIGroupId>fd266a4c-9a02-4553-9310-80e05ee844f3</PowerBIGroupId>
         <PowerBIReportId>544c4162-6773-4944-900c-abfd075f6081</PowerBIReportId>
         <TileUrl>https://xyz.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=544c4162-6773-4944-900c-
      abfd075f6081&amp;groupId=fd266a4c-9a02-4553-9310-80e05ee844f3</TileUrl>
      </parameters>
        Fields have different data types in Power BI and Dataverse. They need to be the same
        type, such as string in Power BI and string in Dataverse.
        String fields don't have escaped quotes in the Power BI filter. Notice values has [\"$a\"]
        rather than [$a].
      JSON
          {
                  "Filter": "[{
                          \"$schema\":\"basic\",
                          \"target\":{
                                  \"table\":\"table_name_of_power_bi_dataset\",
                                  \"column\":\"power_bi_field\"
                          },
                          \"operator\":\"In\",
                          \"values\":[\"$a\"],
                          \"filterType\":1
                  }]",
                  "Alias": {
                          "$a": "field_name_in_powerapps_to_filter",
                  }
          }
      See also
      Embed a Power BI dashboard in a Power Apps model-driven personal dashboard
      Use Power BI with Dynamics 365 apps
       Last updated on 04/03/2026
     Embed a canvas app on a model-
     driven form
     Canvas apps enable makers to easily design and create custom layouts using the low-code,
     WYSIWYG Power Apps Studio. Canvas apps also enable makers to connect and display data from
     over 400 data sources.
     With embedded canvas apps, makers can bring the power of canvas apps to their model-driven
     app forms. Using embedded canvas apps, it's possible to create rich visual areas on a form and
     display data from a variety of sources right next to data from Microsoft Dataverse.
     Canvas apps are embedded in model-driven app forms in the same way other custom controls
     are added. An embedded canvas app includes rich data integration capabilities that bring in
     contextual data from the host model-driven form to the embedded canvas app.
     Integrate canvas apps using custom pages in the
     modern app designer
     With the modern app designer, canvas apps can be accessed through a model-driven app by
     using a custom page.
