         Forms provide the user interface (UI) that people use to create, view, or edit table records. Use
         the form designer in Power Apps   to create and edit forms.
         There are four types of forms: main, quick create, quick view, and card.
         More information:
              Form Types
              Opening the form designer
              Learn about creating and designing forms
              Add a section to or remove a section from a form
              Add a tab to or remove a tab from a form
         Form designer
         The design experience for creating and editing forms.
         Opening the form designer
         Group
         A part of the model-driven app navigation experience. Group names appear as a navigation
         element in an app with the subarea names (tables) within the group listed beneath it.
         Legacy
         This refers to features that have either been deprecated, or the way in which they're authored,
         has been moved to a more modern experience, such as the web-based unified interface.
         Lookup
         A lookup is a field type that exists when two tables are related. Lookups can be seen in table
         views on the many side of a one-to-many relationship. Lookups are generally populated using
         a form on the many side of the relationship.
              Learn more about the lookup field user experience
              How to configure a lookup
         Main form
     Every table has at least one main form. The main form represents the primary method of
     interaction with a record. The main form is responsive to the device using the screen form and
     can contain controls that are optimized to the device whether it's phone, tablet, or web. Main
     forms are edited using the form designer.
     Learn about other form types
     Monitor
     Also know as the app monitor. It lets you understand aspects of the performance of a model-
     driven app. App monitor can an also be used to monitor canvas apps.
       Learn how to use the app monitor
       Use Monitor to understand form performance
     Page
     Modern apps have the concept of pages, which can be either a model-driven app component
     (table, dashboard, navigation link, or web resource) or a canvas-based page using a custom
     page. Custom pages allow flexible layout, low-code Power Fx functions, and Power Apps
     connector data.
     A custom page is a tool for enabling model-driven apps and canvas apps to function together.
       Working with custom pages
       Learn about creating modern apps
     Power Automate
     A Power Platform service that allows users to streamline repetitive tasks. Typically, this
     automation is performed using cloud flows.
     Model-driven app business process flows that direct users to complete table records in a
     specific fashion, are authored within Power Automate.
     Power Automate flows exist within an environment and can also exist within Power Apps
     solutions.
     Learn more about Power Automate
     Power BI
     A data visualization tool that has the capacity to be embedded within model-driven apps or to
     operate independently of them. Power BI can connect to a wide range of data sources, of
     which Dataverse is just one.
     Power BI reports aren't stored within Dataverse environments.
        Use Power BI within a model driven app
        Learn more about Power BI
     Publish
     The process by which you make the latest iteration of the app available to users within an
     environment.
     Publisher
     Every solution has a publisher. You specify the publisher when you create a solution. The
     solution publisher indicates who developed the app, and defines the prefix, such as
     Contoso_MyNewTable, for all the solution assets.
     Learn more about publishers
     Record
     A record contains one or more columns of information about a person, a place, or a thing. For
     example, a record might contain the name, the email address, and the phone number of a
     single customer. Other tools refer to a record as a "row" or an "item." Records exist within
     Dataverse tables.
     Relationship
     The way columns in different tables relate to each other. There are three types of relationship:
        One-to-many. For example, one author to many novels.
        Many-to-one. For example, many pages to one book.
        Many-to-many. For example, many books borrowed by many people.
     Model-driven apps often contain tables with relationships between them. Where relationships
     exist, users navigate to the record within the related table. For example, when looking at a sales
     invoice record, you can open the related account record to investigate details for that account.
     Learn about creating table relationships
     Responsive apps
     An app that is responsive renders itself in a way that depends on the device that is accessing
     the app. This can also mean that there might be a different control displayed, such as a date
     picker, depending on whether the user is running the app on a computer, tablet, or phone.
     Additionally, tables and fields render themselves according to screen size of the device.
     Section
     Tabs within forms are arranged into sections. Sections can be arranged into one to four
     columns and let you arrange the record metadata in a way that is most relevant to the current
     tab and the current section.
     Learn more about working with sections
     Security role
     A security role defines what people can see and do with features and data in Dataverse. For
     records, security roles determine the create, read, write, delete, update, and append actions
     available to a user.
     Security roles are created and users are put into security roles either as individual user names
     or by using active directory security groups.
     You grant access to model-driven apps through security roles.
        Find out more about security roles
        General overview of security in Microsoft Dataverse
        Get started with security roles in Dataverse
     Site map
     A model-driven app is essentially a collection of tables, dashboards, views, and pages, and
     these are described via the site map. The site map defines the tables and pages that are
     included within a model-driven app and the navigation experience users have when moving
     between them.
     When configuring the navigation experience you're editing the areas, groups, and subarea
     navigation elements. Tables exist at the level of the subarea, and are arranged into groups.
     Groups are effectively collections of tables and pages and are visible in the navigation pane.
     Areas allow you to toggle between visible groups.
     Both modern and classic methods of creating a model-driven app include site maps. However,
     with the modern app designer you can design the site map with a drag and drop experience
     whereas the classic site map designer doesn't support drag and drop.
     To open the site map in the classic site map designer from the modern app building
     experience, select Switch to classic.
     Find out more about app navigation
     Solution
     A solution is a wrapper for a wide range of components including tables, cloud flows, and
     security roles.
     When you make a model-driven app, ensure that the assets associated with it are held inside a
     solution.
     Solutions have two types:
        Managed solutions generally permit only a small amount of customization or no
        customization at all.
        Unmanaged solutions give makers full control over the project that they're creating.
     Unmanaged solutions are used by makers and developers for exporting projects as a managed
     solution for use in nondevelopment environments, such as a production environment. This
     allows for a high level of control for application lifecycle management.
        Find out more about solutions here
        Discover solutions in the context of Dataverse
     Solution explorer
     This is the classic experience that makers and customizers can use to view and make changes
     to most any solution component. More modern experiences are available from
     make.powerapps.com and the model-driven app designers and solution explorer will
     eventually be replaced with those modern experiences.
     To access the modern solution interface, follow these steps:
       1. Sign in to make.powerapps.com.
       2. Select an environment.
       3. On the left pane, select Solutions, and then open an unmanaged solution where you
        want to add a model-driven app. Create a solution if one doesn't already exist.
       4. Explore the components of the solution.
     Find out more about solutions
     Subarea
     A part of the model driven app navigation experience. Subareas (tables) and pages appear
     under the group that they're configured within in the app designer.
     Subgrid
     Subgrids are areas of main forms that display a list of records from a Dataverse table, while
     remaining on the form. Typically, a subgrid is used to display child records that relate to the
     parent record currently under review. For example, books written by an author.
     While subgrids are displayed in a model-driven app, they're a property of the form.
        Create a subgrid
        Subgrid properties - legacy
     Tab
     Every form has at least one tab and these are relevant to how we present table record data. A
     form can have multiple tabs. This lets you, the maker, offer the user a range of ways of looking
     at the same record. Tabs often offer a better user experience by providing a more logical way
     of presenting the data in the record.
     From a site map perspective, a tab is a "group" when using the site map designer versus a
     subarea for tables and an area to hold subareas.
     Learn more about working with tabs
     Table
     A table is a method of storing data in columns (or fields) within Dataverse. Tables where
     formerly called entities.
     Tables, in the context of model-driven apps, only exist within a Dataverse database.
     A single row within a table is known as a record. For example, a single customer, and the
     columns describe metadata associated with the customer such as the name, telephone
     number, or credit limit.
     Every model-driven app must contain at least one table. Much of the process of creating a
     model-driven app is selecting the tables most relevant to solving the business problem.
     Tables have views, forms, and business rules associated with them.
     Additionally, tables also have charts as well as dashboards where charts are presented.
     Tables can relate to other tables and these are defined via the relationships that have been set
     up between them.
     Find out more about configuring tables
     Table designer
     The design experience for creating and editing tables. This lets you create tables, columns,
     relationships, business rules, and views.
     Create a custom table using the table designer
     Unified Interface
     The Unified Interface provides a consistent and accessible user experience across devices—
     whether on a desktop, laptop, tablet, or phone. The predecessor to the Unified Interface was
     known as the web interface.
     Find out more about the unified interface here
     Validate
     The process by which an app maker confirms if the model-driven app has all the components
     required for it to function properly.
     Learn how to validate an app
      View
      A tabular representation of records in a Dataverse table. Tables can have multiple views.
      Views can be prefiltered and it's possible to define the specific views that a model-driven app
      makes available to users.
      Tables can have multiple views associated with them and you can define the table views
      relevant to a model-driven app at the time that you create them.
      Find out more about views here
      Workflow
      A classic workflow is a series of functions or methods, called steps, that are performed
      sequentially and apply to data contained within tables. The workflow can change the
      processing direction by using conditionals, referred to as conditional branches.
      In many cases classic workflows should be replaced with Power Automate flows.
      Last updated on 04/03/2026
        Install the Power Apps mobile app
        If you're not signed up for Power Apps, sign up for free   . Then choose the download link or scan
        a QR code to download Power Apps mobile.
                                                                                           ﾉ Expand table
                       iOS                            Android                          Windows
           ７ Note
           For more information on Power Apps for Windows, see Power Apps for Windows.
        Required privileges and supported devices
        Review the following privileges and supported devices to run Power Apps Mobile app:
              Required privileges
              Supported platforms for running apps using the Power Apps mobile app.
        Sign in
        Open Power Apps on your mobile device, and sign in by using your Azure Active Directory
        credentials.
        If you have the Microsoft Authenticator app installed on your mobile device, enter your username
        when prompted, and then approve the notification sent to your device. If you run into issues
        signing in, see Troubleshoot issues for Power Apps mobile app.
     Find the app
     When you create an app, or someone shares an app with you—either a canvas app or model-
     driven app—you can run that app on Power Apps mobile.
      ７ Note
      To see a model-driven app in the list of apps on Power Apps mobile, you need to have a
      predefined security role in the environment that the app is in. If a predefined security role is
      assigned to a user using a Dataverse team, you need to use an Azure Active Directory (AAD)
      group team. Users will not see model-driven apps if a predefined security role is assigned
      using a Dataverse owner team.
    Legend:
     1. Model-driven apps
     2. Canvas apps
    The apps that you used recently will show on the default screen when you sign in to Power Apps
    mobile.
    The Home is the default screen when you sign in. It shows the apps that you used recently and
    the apps that have marked as favorites.
    Filter apps
    If you don't have any apps, then when you sign in, you will land on the All apps screen. The list of
    apps is organized in alphabetical order. Type in an app name in the search bar to find an app.
     1. Settings: Access app settings and sign out.
     2. Search: Search for apps. When you run a search, the system searches for apps that are on
      the screen only.
     3. Favorites (canvas apps only): Displays canvas apps that you have pinned to favorites.
     4. Recent apps: Displays both model-driven and canvas apps that you have recently used.
     5. Home: Displays favorite apps, recently accessed and recommended apps sorted by open
      date.
     6. All apps: Displays all canvas apps and model-driven apps to which you have access,
      including apps you created and apps that others shared with you.
     7. Featured apps (canvas apps only): Displays featured apps.
     8. More (canvas apps only): Displays sample apps.
     9. Details: View information about the app including run the app, add a shortcut for the app,
      and add the app to favorites.
     10. Recommended apps: Displays recommended apps based on groups associated with your
      organization.
     11. Sort apps: Sort by the app name or modified date.
        Add to favorites
        You can add canvas and model-driven apps to your list of favorite apps.
              Swipe left and then select Favorite. A yellow star will appear next to app name when it's
              added to favorites. You can also select Details     and then add the app to favorites.
              To remove the app from the list, swipe left again and then select Unfavorite.
     Sort apps
     You can sort both canvas apps and model-driven apps. You can sort apps alphabetically by name
     or by modified date. The sort option is available on Home, All apps, Featured apps, and Sample
     apps screen.
     Search apps
     If you know the name of the app that you want to run, then use search to quickly find the app.
     You can search for both canvas apps and model-driven apps.
     To find an app, enter the app name in the search field. The app will only search for apps that are
     on the screen you're on.
    Refresh the list of apps
    On the Home, All apps or any other screen with a list of apps, swipe down to refresh the app list.
     Add shortcuts
     You can add a shortcut for both canvas apps and model-driven apps to the home screen of your
     device for quick access.
     Use Safari to add a shortcut (iOS 13 or earlier)
      1. On the app that you want to create a shortcut for, swipe to the right and select Shortcut.
            2. Select     .
     3. Scroll down and select Add to Home Screen
     4. Select Add.
          ７ Note
          For iOS devices that have multiple browsers installed, use Safari when pinning an app to
          home.
        Use Siri shortcuts to add a shortcut to the Home screen (iOS 14
        or later)
        The Power Apps mobile app is now integrated with Siri shortcuts, which gives you the ability to
        add a shortcut to the Home screen, launch apps with Siri, and create new workflows. For more
        information on how shortcuts work on iOS, see Shortcuts User Guide  . This feature requires
        Power Apps mobile version 3.20092.x or later.
        Users on iOS 14 or later can use Siri Shortcuts to pin an app to the home screen. The new
        experience works for both model-driven and canvas apps. When you add a Siri shortcut, the app
        is added to the iOS Shortcuts app and from there you can add the app to your home screen.
     1. On the app that you want add a shortcut for, swipe to the right and select Shortcut.
     2. Add a custom phrase to open the app using voice commands and then select Add to Siri.
     3. The app is added to the Shortcuts app on your mobile device. Open the Shortcuts app and
      select the ellipsis (...) above the app name.
     4. Select Add to Home Screen.
     5. On the upper right corner, select Add and then select Done.
     6. Go to your home screen to find the pinned app.
        You can customize the shortcut icon but it is limited to the customization options in iOS. For
        more information, go to Modify shortcut icons  .
        Pin to home on Android
        Select the ellipsis (...) on the app tile, select Pin to Home, and then follow the instructions that
        appear.
        See non-production apps
        By default, only production model-driven apps are shown in the list of apps.
        To see model-driven apps from non-production environments, select the Settings menu    , and
        then turn on Show non-production apps. Follow the instructions that appear.
    Run an app
    To run an app on a mobile device, select the app tile from the Home or All apps screen in the
    Power Apps mobile app.
    Considerations when opening apps:
       If you created the app, you see the app in the Home page > Recommended apps section.
       If you didn't create the app and the app is shared with you, use search box in the Apps
       screen to find the app the first time. After you open the app, it shows up on the Home
       screen the next time you access it.
    Run a canvas app
    If this is the first time you're running a canvas app by using Power Apps mobile, a screen shows
    the swipe gestures.
    Close a canvas app
    Use your finger to swipe from the left edge of the app to the right to close an app. On Android
    devices, you can also press the Back button and then confirm that you intended to close the app.
    Pinch and zoom in on a canvas app
    Give consent to a canvas app
    If an app requires a connection to a data source or permission to use the device's capabilities
    (such as the camera or location services), you must give consent before you can use the app.
    Typically, you're prompted only the first time you run the app.
    Use a model-driven app
    The following image shows an example of a model-driven app screen after you've signed in. To
    learn how to use model-driven apps running on Power Apps mobile, go to Use model-driven
    apps on Power Apps mobile.
    Give consent to a model-driven app
    If an app requires a connection to a data source or permission to use the device's capabilities
    (such as the camera or location services), you must give consent before you can use the app.
    Typically, you're prompted only the first time you use the app.
        Close a model-drive app
        Select the site map     , and then select Apps.
           ７ Note
           An app maker can customize the navigation bar and show or hide the Home, Recent,
           Pinned buttons in the site map. An app maker can also make groups collapsible. For more
           information, see Hide or show the Home, Pinned, Recent, and collapsible groups.
         Other mobile apps
         The table below outlines which other mobile apps you can use to run your app.
                                                                                               ﾉ
                                                                                                   Expand table
          Mobile App                         Apps you can run
          Power Apps mobile (covered in            Model-driven apps
          this topic)                              Canvas apps
                                                   Dynamics 365 Marketing
                                                   Dynamics 365 Customer Service
         Mobile App                       Apps you can run
         Power Apps for Windows                 Model-driven apps
                                                Canvas apps
         Dynamics 365 for phone and             Microsoft Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement (on-premises)
         tablets                                Note: Dynamics 365 for Tablets is deprecated, and won't be
                                                supported in 2023.
         Dynamics 365 Sales Mobile              Dynamics 365 Sales
         Field Service Mobile                   Field Service (Dynamics 365)
        Regional availability of Power Apps mobile app
        Power Apps mobile app is available to users in Azure global cloud and also in the following
        regions:
             US Department of Defense (US DoD)
             US Government Community Cloud (GCC) High
             US Government Community Cloud (GCC)
             China Sovereign Cloud
        Mobile users have an option to select their region on Power Apps mobile app sign in screen.
     More information:
        Azure Government documentation
        Dynamics 365 US Government
        Power Platform and Dynamics 365 apps in China
     Privacy notice
     Power Apps mobile app for Android registers for a system event that is broadcasted when the
     device is finished booting. Power Apps mobile app for Android registers for this event to support
     push notifications sent to the app.
     Power Apps mobile app and wrapped native mobile apps may use device sensors, such as the
     device accelerometer, to respond to user actions. For example, wrapped native mobile apps
     would automatically show the app menu when the user shakes the device.
     See also
     Use model-driven apps on Power Apps mobile
     Troubleshoot issues for Power Apps mobile
      Last updated on 06/12/2026
         Manage your mobile app with Microsoft
         Intune
         Article • 05/26/2025
         Mobile application management software enables IT administrators to apply and enforce
         corporate policies on mobile apps. One mobile application management option for IT
         administrators is Microsoft Intune, which offers a suite of features that lets you publish, push,
         configure, secure, monitor, and update mobile apps - including Power Apps mobile, Dynamics
         365 Sales Mobile, and Field Service Mobile. Mobile application management is essential to
         organizations whose users use mobile app primarily because:
            1. Users frequently travel to multiple locations, and protecting sensitive company data is
              critical.
            2. Many organizations have a bring-your-own-device policy, which means that the mobile
              app needs management among many devices and apps for personal use.
         With an Intune-enabled mobile app, IT administrators can:
              Add and assign the mobile app to user groups and devices, including users in specific
              groups, devices in particular groups, and more.
              See reports and track app usage.
              Limit sharing of corporate data among apps by restricting data leakage through cut, copy,
              paste, and save-as.
              Provide encryption at rest.
         Intune is a separate Microsoft product that is not included with Power Apps mobile. Refer to
         the documentation on What is Microsoft Intune app management? and Assign apps to groups
         with Microsoft Intune to get started.
         A configuration can be set up through the Device Management portal  . Each supported
         platform (iOS, Android, and Windows) requires a separate configuration.
         Enhanced security support in Intune
         Intune advanced app settings aren't currently supported with Power Apps Mobile. However,
         organization admins and makers have complete control over authentication, user access,
         managing sensitive data access, configuring notifications, setting data sync policies across
         sources, and defining access to organizational data and documents, through combination of
         Power Platform environment settings and Azure conditional access policies.
            Set the appearance of your app to dark
            or light mode
            Article • 11/30/2022
            Easily change the display of your app to dark mode, light mode, or set it to the system
            default on iOS and Android devices.
            When you choose the System default, the display setting for Power Apps mobile will
            match the dark or light mode display setting on your iOS    or Android   device.
            The default display mode for Power Apps mobile is set to Light.
                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
              Light mode appearance                      Dark mode appearance
               1. To change the display, open Power Apps mobile and sign in.
               2. From the Home screen, select your profile picture.
       3. Under Settings, select Appearance.
       4. Select your display setting: Light, Dark, or System default.
                 5. When you're done, select the X to close the window.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Use model-driven apps in the Power
       Apps mobile app
       Article • 08/02/2023
       Use Power Apps mobile to run model-driven apps on your mobile device. For more
       information about how to install and get started with an app, see Install Power Apps
       mobile.
        ） Important
           To use your model-driven app in the Power Apps mobile app, your app maker
           must have set the Primary mobile player setting to Power Apps mobile. For
           more information, see Manage model-driven app settings in the app
           designer.
       Home screen
       It's easy to get around in Power Apps mobile. The following illustration shows the
       primary navigation elements on the Home screen.
       Legend:
        1. Site map: Open the menu and move between apps, get to your favorite and
         recently used rows, access settings, and more.
        2. Search: Search for app rows in Microsoft Dataverse.
        3. New: Create a new row and quickly enter almost any type of information into the
         system.
        4. Assistant: Use the assistant to monitor and track daily actions and
         communications. It helps you stay on top of your day with insight cards that are
         displayed prominently throughout the app to provide tailored and actionable
         insights.
       Site map
            From the Home screen, select the site map      to access tables, favorite or most-used
            rows, other apps, and settings.
            Your site map might look different if your app maker has customized the navigation bar
            to show or hide the Home, Recent, Pinned buttons in the site map. An app maker can
            also make groups collapsible. For more information, see Hide or show the Home,
            Pinned, Recent, and collapsible groups.
            The following illustration shows the primary navigation elements on the site map screen.
      Legend
       1. App selector: Open this menu to close your app and switch to another app.
       2. Home screen: Select this to go back to the Home screen.
       3. Profile: Go to the Profile screen to sign out or reconfigure the app.
       4. Recent rows: View a list of rows you were recently using.
       5. Pinned rows: View and open your favorite (pinned) rows.
       6. Table navigator: This area lists the table available in the app.
       7. Help: Access help content for more information about how to use Power Apps
        mobile.
       8. Offline status: Work with your data in offline mode, even when you don't have
        internet access. More information: Work offline on your mobile device
       9. Settings: Access settings.
             Pin favorite rows
             The Pinned and Recent lists provide quick access to rows that you've recently used or
             pinned to favorites. Use the Recent list to pin favorite rows.
                1. From the site map    , select Recent   .
                2. On the Recent rows screen, select the push-pin icon next to a row to add it to your
                  favorites (pinned rows).
                3. To view the newly pinned rows, select X, and then select Pinned   .
             Unpin a row
                1. From the site map    , select Pinned   .
                2. Select the remove-pin icon    next to a row to remove it from favorites (pinned
                  rows).
             Change views
                  From the Home screen, select the down arrow       next to the current view, and
                  then select a new view.
       Add a row quickly
        1. From the Home screen, select New  .
        2. Fill in the columns, and then select Save.
        3. After the row is created, you can view the new row.
                  To save and open the row that you created, select More       , and then select
                  Save and Open.
                  To save and create another row, select More       , and then select Save and
                  Create new.
       Sort rows
       Sort in ascending or descending order: From a list view, select the arrow to sort the list
       in ascending or descending order.
      Sort by field: Select the current Sort by field and then select another field to sort by.
       Access the actions menu
       From a list view, swipe left to access the actions menu for a row.
               ７ Note
               The Flow actions menu in Power Apps mobile doesn't support flows created in a
               solution.
            Access more commands (Android)
               1. From the Home screen, open a row.
               2. On the open row, select More        to access more commands.
       Edit a row
         1. From the Home screen, open a row that you want to edit.
         2. When you're done editing the row, select Save. To cancel your changes, select
          Discard.
            Go back to the Home screen
                  To get back to the Home screen when you're in a row, select Back     .
                  At any point, press and hold Back     to go back to the Home screen.
              Sign out
              From the site map        , select the profile icon    , and then select Sign out.
              Enhancements (preview)
              [This section has pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
              This section describes enhancements that have been made to model-driven apps on
              mobile devices.
       Lock tabs at the top of forms
       Your app maker can choose to lock the tabs at the top of a form so they are always
       visible while users scroll through the data on the form.
       Your app maker can turn on this feature. For more inforamtion, see Features.
       Mobile commanding improvements
       Your app maker can enable Mobile commanding improvements to provide easy access
       to contextual commands when you're using Power Apps mobile. Here's a list of
       improvements:
          The Delete command on a grid page is automatically hidden when a row is not
          selected thus, making room for other commands. When one or more rows is
          selected the Delete command is automatically displayed.
           The Process command is hidden when there's no process enabled for a table.
           Removing a nonfunctional command makes room for other commands.
                                                     ﾉ Expand table
                       Before                    After
           Some commands have been moved from the main set of commands to an
           overflow menu. This gives priority to other commands, including custom
           commands.
        Tablet optimization for command bar
        The command bar on Power Apps mobile for tablets was at the bottom, now the
        command bar is located at the top.
              Your app maker can turn on this feature. For more inforamtion, see Features.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Use Dataverse search for model-driven
       apps in the Power Apps mobile app
       Article • 01/28/2023
       You can quickly find the information that you're looking for by using Dataverse search.
       The Dataverse search experience delivers fast and comprehensive results across multiple
       tables, in a single list, sorted by relevance.
       Dataverse search is already available when you're using a model-driven app in a web
       browser. The functionality is the same in Power Apps Mobile, but it works a little
       differently. More information: Search for tables and rows by using Dataverse search
       Before you begin using Dataverse search, the new experience needs to be enabled by
       the administrator for your organization. More information: Enable Dataverse search
       When Dataverse search is turned on, it becomes your default and only global search
       experience for all of your model-driven apps. You won't be able to switch to quick find
       search also known as categorized search.
       Run a search
       View suggested search results inline as you type, minimizing keystrokes and simplifying
       page navigation.
        1. Select the search button.
       2. Enter the words you want to search for in the search box.
       3. As you enter search text, rows that match your text begin to appear.
       Early access: Use the barcode scanner
       [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
       If you're on early access, you can use the barcode scanner to look up rows. The scanner
       automatically detects a barcode, a QR code, or a data-matrix code.
       You also enter text in the search box such as contoso and then use the barcode scanner
       to scan a barcode, such as 12345. In this case, the system will search for contoso12345.
         1. To use the barcode scanner, select the search button.
         2. Select the barcode scanner button and then scan your item.
       View search results
       Search results are ranked and grouped by table.
      Legend
       1. Search box: Enter the words you want to search for.
       2. Top results: This tab shows the rows that best match the search query.
       3. Table-specific tab: To narrow your search results to a specific table, select the table
        tab.
       4. Filter: Refine the search results by using filters. When you select filters, the number
        of tables that have been filtered on appears next to the filter option.
       5. See all: Up to three rows will appear; if there are more, select See all.
      Filter search results
      Use filters to drill into and explore the results of your current search without having to
      repeatedly refine your search terms. Immediately after you perform a search, you can
      filter by Owner, Created On, or Modified On.
      Legend
        1. Back: Go back to the search results screen.
        2. Filter: Select a filter type to filter the search results.
        3. Clear all: Clear all filters and return to the search results screen.
      Feedback
        Was this page helpful?
                     Yes  No
        Provide product feedback
       In-app notifications in the Power Apps
       mobile app
       Article • 01/28/2023
       In-app notifications allow users to receive notifications in the notification center and as
       a notification toast. For more information, see In-app notifications in model-driven apps.
       In Power Apps mobile, toast notifications appear one at a time.
       Access notifications
       1. To access notifications in Power Apps mobile, go to site map and then select the
        bell icon.
       2. The notification center opens which displays all your notifications.
         3. To dismiss and delete a notification, select the close X button on a notification. Or,
          select Dismiss all to dismiss and delete all notifications.
       Turn toast notifications on or off
         1. To turn toast notifications on or off, from the site map, go to Settings
         2. Under In-App Notifications, go to the Enable toasts and move the toggle to on or
          off.
                 3. If you've enabled toast notifications, then select Total duration and enter how long
                    you want the toast to appear.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Create push notifications for the Power
       Apps mobile app using Power Automate
       Article • 03/14/2023
       Push notifications are used in Power Apps mobile to engage app users and help them
       prioritize key tasks. In Power Apps, you can create notifications for Power Apps mobile
       by using the Power Apps Notification connector. You can send notifications to any app
       that you create in Power Apps.
       Add a push notification to your app if:
                 Your users need to know information immediately.
                 Your users must complete important tasks by using your app, in a preloaded
                 context.
                 You want to engage your users on a specific interval, or you need users to enter
                 the app in a specific context.
              ７ Note
              To receive push notification, each user must have opened the app in Power Apps
              Mobile once or gotten the app from the Microsoft 365 apps page   .
            Before you can create push notification you need to have access to an app and have the
            row ID if you're creating a notification for a form.
            Create an app
            You need to have Contributor permission for a model-driven app or canvas app. If you
            don't have an app, you can create one. For information, see:
                 Create a model-drive app
                 Create a canvas app
            Create a notification from a flow
            When you trigger a push notification from a flow, you can send the notification to only
            one user or security group at a time.
               1. Go to Power Automate    and select Create.
               2. Select Automated flow.
       3. On the Build an automated flow screen, choose one of the flow trigger or select
        Skip and manually create one.
       4. From the list of connectors and triggers select Microsoft Dataverse (current
        environment).
         5. Select the action that will trigger the notification.
         6. Enter the trigger condition information and then select New step.
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
                      Name                          Description
                      Trigger condition             Select the condition for the notification.
                      The table name                Select which table the notification is for.
                      Scope                         Select the scope.
                  7. In the Choose an action search box, enter send push notification. In the list of
                     Actions choose Send push notification V2.
       8. On the Send push notification screen, enter the following information:
           Mobile app: Select Power Apps.
           Your app: Select the app that you want to set up the notification for. Model-
           driven apps and canvas apps have different parameters. The next step will
           depend on the type of app you select here.
       9. Depending on the type of app that you selected in the previous step, do one of
        the following:
        For a model-driven app, enter this information:
          Recipient Items-1: Select how the flow is triggered.
          Message: Enter the notification message.
          Open app: Select whether to open the model-driven app or not when the user
          selects the notification.
          Table: Select which table the notification is for.
            Form or view: Select if the notification is for a form or view.
            Row ID: If the notification is for a form, then enter the row ID.
          For a canvas app, enter this information:
            Recipient Items-1: Select how the flow is triggered.
            Message: Enter the notification message.
            Open app: Select whether to open the canvas app or not when the user selects
            the notification.
            Parameters: Key-value parameters to pass with the notification. Your push
            notification can pass specific parameters to the app. These can be further
            processed in the app to open a specific page and load a specific state. For more
            information, see Perform an action when a user taps the notification.
         8. When you're done, select Save.
         9. Select Flow checker to check for error or warnings.
        10. Test the flow by selecting Test and follow the prompts.
       Perform an action when a user taps the
       notification
         Pass parameters
         For canvas apps, you can pass key-value pairs using the Parameters field as JSON. For
         example, if you wanted to pass the CaseID, you would put the following as Parameters:
         { "CaseID": 42 }. You can also use dynamic values from earlier steps as shown below.
         Read parameters
         To read the passed parameters, use Param("ParameterName"). For example, to read the
         CaseID value, use Param("CaseID"). To quickly identify this parameter, add a Label
         control to your app. Set the Text property of that control to Param("CaseID"). If the user
         opens the app from the All apps list, the value is empty. If the user opens the app from
         another location on the device, the value is populated with the CaseID value.
         Set the start page
         You can set your app to open, for example, the Case details page as soon as the app
         opens:
           1. Add a Timer control, and set its OnTimerEnd property to this formula:
            Navigate(EditCase, ScreenTransition.None)
           2. (optional) Hide the Timer control by setting its Visible property to false.
           3. Set the OnVisible property of the screen to Timer.Start().
           Tip
          It's a good idea to create a unique first page in the app for the notification:
            1. Create an empty page that your app doesn't already open, add a Text Input
              control, and set its timer.Duration value.
                    2. When you create the app, set the timer to a non-zero value. When you're
                      ready to publish the app, set the value to 0 to immediately trigger the timer.
              Considerations
                    You can send a push notification from one app to another or to the same app. For
                    more information, see Send notification from an app.
                    Notifications show the generic Power Apps icon instead of a specific app icon.
                    Notifications are not supported in China on Android devices.
                    Battery optimization settings on an Android device can interfere with receiving
                    notifications for Power Apps mobile. To receive notifications for Power Apps
                    mobile, turn off battery optimization for the app.
                    The example push notifications that are mentioned in this topic are only supported
                    on Power Apps mobile. Other mobile apps such as Dynamics 365 Sales mobile app
                    or Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets do not support these types of
                    notifications.
              For reference information, see Power Apps Notification reference.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
     Use deep links with the Power Apps mobile
     app
     10/15/2025
     Deep links let users move from one application to another on computers and mobile devices.
     Simple examples include a mobile app deep-linking to Facebook to sign in, an email address
     deep-linking to a mail app to compose a message, or a website deep-linking to an app store to
     download a related mobile app.
     Supported deep links in the Power Apps mobile
     app
     You can open an entityrecord or an entitylist view in the Power Apps mobile app by using
     deep-link URLs from other apps. When you follow the link from an external app, the target
     element opens in Power Apps mobile
     If you're already signed in to your instance in the app, the target record is displayed when you
     follow the link from an external app. Otherwise, you're prompted to sign in to your instance in
     the mobile app; after you're signed in, the target element is displayed. You must have the
     Power Apps mobile app installed on your mobile device to use this feature.
     Supported Urls parameters for a model-driven app
     Use the following application handler and query string parameters to compose the URL.
     Deep links for the Power Apps mobile app should start with the following:
     ms-apps://<org-url>_<app-id>?tenantId=<tenant-id>&environmentId=<environment-
     id>&appLogicalName=
     <appLogicalName>&appType=AppModule&openApp=true&restartApp=true&forceOfflineDataSync=true
      ） Important
      The org-url can't contain https://. The following is an example of a model-driven app
      deep link:
      ms-apps://contoso.onmicrosoft.com_e6429eba-2204-40e8-b9dd-fc74791ff2c2?
      tenantId=aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-
      dddd2222eeee&environmentId=g67tfyufhkjfg&appLogicalName=cr12_e567
                                                                                                           ﾉ Expand table
             Parameter                         Description                                                          Required
             <targeted-app>                           ms-dynamicsxrm -> Dynamics 365 for phones                     Yes
                                                      ms-apps-fs -> Field Service
                                                      ms-apps -> Power Apps
                                                      ms-mobile-apps -> wrapped native mobile apps
             <org-url>                         Connects to the correct org URL.                                     Yes
             <app-id>                          Opens the correct app module.                                        Yes
             tenantId=<tenand-id>              Connects to the correct tenant.                                      Yes
             *environmentId=                   Uniquely identifies the environment within a tenant.                 Yes
             <environment-id>
             *appLogicalName=<app-             Unique Name of the app. For more information on how to               Yes
             logical-name>                     find this unique name of the app in modern studio, refer
                                               Manage model-driven app settings in the app designer and
                                               for classic editor, refer Manage model-driven app properties
                                               in the app designer (classic)
             appType=AppModule                 Indicates that the targeted app is a model-driven app.               Yes
             restartApp=true                   Restarts the model-driven app. Required to ensure parameters         No
                                               are passed when the app is already open.
             autoLoginUpn=<e-mail>             Autopopulates e-mail and triggers sign-in.                           No
                                               Note: This parameter will be ignored if a user is already signed
                                               into the app.
             forceOfflineDataSync=true         Ensures that data sync is triggered so that all the latest data is   No
                                               available.
           *Considerations
                  The environment ID and appLogicalName are mandatory for all new deep links.
                  Existing deep links without an environment ID or appLogicalName will experience slower
                  performance until December 2025, after which they won't be supported.
                  Update all existing deep links to include the environment ID and appLogicalName to
                  improve performance and reduce wait time.
           If opening an entityrecord form or creating a new entityrecord, use the following
           parameters:
                                                                                                         ﾉ Expand table
            Parameter                    Description                                                              Required
            etn=<entity-logical-         Designates which table to go to.                                         Yes
            name>
            pagetype=entityrecord        Indicates that the target is a form.                                     Yes
            id=<record-id>               Designates which specific record to go to; if left blank, the created    Yes
                                         form for the table opens.
            extraqs=<form-id>            Designates which form to open for the entityrecord; if not               No
                                         specified, the default form opens. The extraqs parameter can also
                                         be used to default field values.
           If the link goes to an entitylist view, add the following parameters:
                                                                                                         ﾉ Expand table
            Parameter                                       Description                                           Required
            etn=<entity-logical-name>                       Designates which table to go to.                      Yes
            pagetype=entitylist                             Indicates that we're going to a view.                 Yes
            viewid=<view-id>                                Designates which view to open.                        No
            Viewtype= <1039 if system view, 4230 if         Indicates whether the targeted view is a system       No
            personal view>                                  view or a personal view.
           Supported Urls parameters for a canvas app
           ms-apps:///providers/Microsoft.PowerApps/apps/<appID>?tenantId=<tenantId>&environmentId=
           <environment-id>&restartApp=true
                                                                                                         ﾉ Expand table
            Parameter                        Description                                                          Required
            <app-id>                         Opens the correct app module.                                        Yes
            tenantId=<tenantId>              Connects to the correct tenant.                                      Yes
            *environmentId=                  Uniquely identifies the environment within a tenant.                 Yes
            <environment-id>
           Parameter                    Description                                                  Required
           restartApp=true              Restarts the Canvas app. Required to ensure parameters are   No
                                        passed when the app is already open.
           autoLoginUpn=<e-mail>        Autopopulates e-mail and triggers sign-in.                   No
                                        Note: This parameter will be ignored if a user is already signed
                                        into the app.
          *Considerations
               The environment ID is mandatory for all new deep links.
               Existing deep links without an environment ID will experience slower performance until
               December 2025, after which they won't be supported.
               Update all existing deep links to include the environment ID to improve performance and
               reduce wait time.
               Supported Urls parameters for a wrapped native
               mobile app
          ms-mobile-apps:///providers/Microsoft.PowerApps/apps/<appID>?tenantId=
          <tenantId>&restartApp=true
            ） Important
            The deep link URL for a wrapped app works only when one wrapped app is installed on
            the mobile device. It doesn't work if more than one wrapped app is installed.
                                                                                             ﾉ
                                                                                                 Expand table
           Parameter              Description                                                        Required
           <app-id>               Opens the correct app module.                                      Yes
           tenantId=<tenantId>    Connects to the correct tenant.                                    Yes
           restartApp=true        Restarts the model-driven app. Required to ensure parameters are   No
                                  passed when the app is already open.
           autoLoginUpn=<e-       Autopopulates e-mail and triggers sign-in.                         No
           mail>
       Parameter     Description                              Required
                     Note: This parameter will be ignored if a user is already signed into
                     the app.
      Troubleshooting
      Deep links can open in your browser depending on the company's organizational policies and
      the user's device settings. Mobile Device Management (MDM) tools and device operating
      systems have different options and settings that affect how deep links are handled. If deep
      links are opening in a browser instead of directly in Power Apps mobile, make sure your MDM
      policies and device settings are appropriately configured.
      As an example, on some Android devices, go to Settings > Apps > Power Apps > Open by
      default and add apps.powerapps.com to make deep links open directly in Power Apps mobile.
      See also
      Important upcoming changes (deprecations) in canvas apps
             Open an app in the Power Apps mobile
             app by scanning a QR code
             Article • 01/28/2023
             Users can easily open a Power Apps canvas or model-driven app on their mobile device
             by scanning a QR code, shown in Power Apps     , from their desktop computer. To do
             this, complete the following steps on your desktop computer.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. In the left pane, select Apps.
                3. Select the check mark icon next to the app that you want to open on your mobile
                  device.
                4. Select the More Commands (...) icon for the app you want to open, and then select
                  Details.
                5. A page showing the details of your app is shown. With your mobile device, scan
                  the QR code.
                6. The app will open on your mobile device.
             Feedback
        Was this page helpful?
                     Yes  No
        Provide product feedback
       Switch to a different directory in the
       Power Apps mobile app
       Article • 03/06/2023
       When a user signs into the Power Apps mobile app, they sign into their home tenant,
       which is the Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant where their credentials are
       provisioned. After signing in, a user can easily change the tenant or directory with which
       they intend to use the Power Apps mobile app. This enables users to easily access the
       Power Apps that have been shared with them in different directories.
       This means that:
         Users no longer need to log out of the Power Apps mobile app to switch
         directories.
         Users can specify the directory they want to work in from a list of directories on the
         user profile page.
         Users, including guest users, can access apps shared with them in different
         directories.
       To switch to a different directory in the Power Apps mobile app:
        1. Open the Power Apps mobile app.
        2. From the Home, All apps, or More page, select your profile image. Your user
         profile page appears.
           ７ Note
           Users signing into the Power Apps mobile app with a Microsoft account
           cannot switch directories from their user profile page. They must use a
           deeplink, instead.
           For more information about how to share canvas apps with guest users, see
           Share a canvas app with guest users.
        3. Select the directory you're signed in to. A list of directories appears.
                 4. Select the directory you want to switch to.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Optimize for devices overview (preview)
       Article • 05/02/2024
       [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
       Optimize for devices is a feature that changes the way canvas app screens are loaded
       and displayed on Android and iOS devices. This feature lets makers build stunning,
       native apps for mobile users with device-optimized screens that use native UI elements,
       instead of rendering inside of web view. Device-optimizes screens provide the following
       benefits:
          Modern mobile user experiences and interaction patterns
          Improved performance and reliability
          Integrated device capabilities with maker-defined UI
       There's no need to rebuild apps as makers can use all the familiar app-building elements
       to create device-optimized experiences, though there are some limitations. Apps that
       are optimized for devices work with other mobile features such as offline, push
       notifications, and wrap.
        ） Important
           This is a preview feature.
           Preview features aren't meant for production use and may have restricted
           functionality. These features are available before an official release so that
           customers can get early access and provide feedback.
       Allow screens to be device-optimized
        1. Select Settings > Upcoming features > Preview > Optimize for devices.
        2. Only use supported controls on the screen.
       After this feature is turned on, you can find which controls are supported in the Insert
       pane by selecting the Device optimized (preview) filter. Learn more about which
       controls are supported natively today.
       Screens made solely with device-optimized controls automatically render natively on
       Android and iOS devices. An app can have screens which are optimized, while some
       others aren't. This only depends on the controls chosen by the maker to create that
       screen.
              How screens are optimized for devices
              For a canvas app running on Power Apps mobile, there are UI elements, their current
              state, and the related business logic that determines how screens are optimized. For
              example, on a screen you might have a button at position 0, with a width and height of
              200 and 40 respectively, and with fill color blue. The business logic, with Power Fx, lets
              you navigate the user to a different screen.
              If the Optimize for devices option is off for that screen, the screen loads and displays in
              a web view, running similarly to how it would in a desktop's web browser. When
              Optimize for devices is on, each element's current state is passed over to the device
              where it renders that same element, but using native UI. So now we have a natively
              rendered, long blue button in the upper-left corner. Business logic modifies state or
              takes actions, which runs the same way it did before. When the natively rendered button
              is selected, the device runs Power Fx and the user is navigated to the specified screen.
              Each control needs a device-optimized, native equivalent that supports the same
              properties so it can render the way a maker expects. During preview, there are some
              limitations to which controls and properties are supported. Whether a control is classic
              or modern, it filters the list of controls for device-optimized ones.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Optimize for devices (preview)
     07/28/2025
     For a screen to be optimized for devices, it must use controls that are supported natively. You
     can filter the control Insert pane to only show device-optimized controls.
      ） Important
         This is a preview feature. Documentation is subject to change.
         Preview features aren't meant for production use and may have restricted
         functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers
         can get early access and provide feedback.
     Device-optimized controls
     The following controls are optimized for iOS and Android devices. All other controls are
     currently unsupported. A screen that has one or more unsupported controls automatically
     renders in a web view instead of native UI. Learn more: Optimize for devices overview.
     Controls
        Add picture
        Attachment
        Barcode reader
        Button
        Camera
        Check box
        Circle
        Components
        Container (horizontal and vertical included)
        Form
        Gallery (vertical, horizontal, flexible height)
        Icon (all icons supported)
        Image
        Radio
        Rectangle
        Text input
        Text label
        Timer
     Modern controls
        Button
        Check box
        Date picker
        Text
        Text input
        Toggle
     Learn more: Overview of modern controls and themes in canvas apps
     Unsupported controls
     If a screen has an unsupported control, the screen automatically reverts to render with a web
     view.
     Device-optimized properties
     Some properties must be configured so they're optimized for devices. For example, consider
     the barcode reader control. The maker can select Scan Inline for the Scanning mode property.
     In Power Apps Studio, when this mode is selected, the control displays as a warning box
     indicating that the control only works on mobile devices. On a device, in a screen optimized for
     devices, the control displays a camera feed to allow barcode scanning.
     Known limitations
     Note the following limitations with the 'optimize for devices' feature.
        The Image control, when showing an SVG file, only supports the fit, fill, and stretch image
        position options. Its default behavior is to fit, if another option is selected. All other image
        types work as expected for all image positions.
        In the modern Text input control, the Value property, when set to a Power Fx variable,
        isn't displayed at first navigation. Instead, it shows the placeholder value until the user
        navigates away and back to the screen with the modern Text input control.
        In the modern Text input control, the OnChange property is called each time the user
        interacts with the control, instead of when navigating away from the control.
        In the modern Text input control, the Validate state property doesn't display a red border
        around the control.
        In the Image control, the Image rotation property isn't supported. The image isn't
        rotated.
        In the Dropdown and Radio control, the Items property doesn't support references to
        other controls. Items aren't shown if they're complex values, like references.
        In the modern Date picker control, tapping on the control opens a modal with a calendar
        instead of allowing users to type into the control directly.
       In the modern Date picker control, the Base palette color and modern theme aren't
       applied on Android devices. Instead, it displays as the device's theme color.
       In the Button, Image, Label, and Icon controls, the SetFocus Power Fx function doesn't
       support keyboard focus, only accessibility focus (for example, screen reader).
       In Horizontal and vertical containers, the Scroll option only works for a single direction,
       depending on the Wrap property. If Wrap is off, the container is scrollable in the primary
       direction, otherwise it's scrollable in the secondary direction.
       Multiple Barcode reader controls on a single screen aren't supported.
       Multiple Camera controls on a single screen aren't supported.
       In the Camera control, the Display mode property of the parent control isn't supported.
       For example, if the camera control is part of a form that is set to view mode, the camera
       might still be in edit mode.
    Related information
    Supported platforms for running apps using the Power Apps mobile app
      How offline first functionality works in
      Power Apps mobile
      Offline first functionality in Power Apps mobile enables users to access and work with app data
      on their mobile devices without an active internet connection. This feature uses a local
      database on the device to store data. When your device is connected to a network, any writes
      made in the app sync to Dataverse immediately. If you perform updates while the network is
      offline, those changes sync automatically with Dataverse as soon as connectivity returns. Reads
      performed while the device is connected to the internet follow the sync frequency configured
      by the maker in the app’s offline settings. When the device transitions from no network to an
      active connection, read operations are triggered again to refresh data.
      Offline profile
      First, to create an offline-first app, maker must create the offline profile. The profile defines:
         Tables and columns available for offline use
         Optional filters to limit the data downloaded per table
         Relationships between tables for linked data access
      After you create the profile, when you first open the app, the data for the offline profile
      downloads and stores locally on the device in a SQLite-based cache. This local copy becomes
      the primary data source for all app operations. Learn more about setting up offline for canvas
      apps in Set up mobile offline for canvas apps and about setting up offline for model-driven
      apps in Set up mobile offline for model-driven apps.
      Data synchronization
      The sync process keeps offline data up to date with Dataverse through automatic
      synchronization:
         Initial download: When the app first opens, all data defined in the offline profile is
         downloaded to the local device.
         Incremental updates: Subsequent down-syncs fetch only changes (inserts, updates,
         deletes) since the last sync, reducing data transfer.
         Configurable frequency: Makers can set down-sync intervals (every few minutes, hourly,
         or daily) for each table in the offline profile in the maker studio.
         Smart sync: If no changes are detected across tables, the down-sync is skipped to save
         bandwidth.
        Automatic resumption: When the mobile device reconnects to the network, the down-
        sync operation resumes automatically.
        Platform differences: On iOS, syncs happen only in the foreground. On Android, syncs
        that start in the foreground continue even when the app moves to the background.
     Local storage and data access
     All offline data is stored in a local database on the device, ensuring data availability regardless
     of network status.
     Read operations: In an offline first app, the app reads from the local cache for all data
     operations, regardless of network connectivity. This includes viewing records, searching, and
     filtering data.
     Write operations: Changes made when the network is offline are queued locally and pushed to
     Dataverse when connectivity is restored. Users can continue making modifications without
     interruption. Changes made when network is online are saved locally and instantly synced to
     Dataverse.
     Data retention: Retention duration isn't fixed by the platform. Data persists as long as the app
     and offline profile remain installed on the device. There's no automatic expiry unless:
        The user clears the app cache or uninstalls the app
        The maker updates the offline profile, which can trigger a full refresh
        The user sign out of the app before the sync is complete
     Maker controls and optimization
     Makers have several tools to optimize data download, offline performance and control the
     offline experience:
        Column selection: Choose specific columns to minimize payload size and reduce
        download time
        Relationship configuration: Define parent-child table relationships for linked data access
        Sync frequency: Configure sync intervals and filters for each table individually
        Media settings: Configure which images and files should be downloaded for offline
        access
     These controls allow makers to balance offline functionality with performance and storage
     constraints on mobile devices. Learn more about how to optimize offline profile in Optimize
     the offline profile
      Building offline app screens
      Screens in an offline-enabled app are built on top of the offline profile and should be designed
      with offline scenarios in mind:
      Data binding: Controls such as galleries and forms bind to tables defined in the offline profile,
      ensuring data availability offline.
      Conditional logic: Screens should handle offline scenarios by disabling actions that require live
      server calls, such as certain API integrations or real-time data operations.
      Optimized layouts: Galleries and forms should show essential columns only, reducing load
      time and improving performance on mobile devices.
      Write-back handling: Input controls queue changes locally and should display status indicators
      (for example, "Pending Sync") until connectivity returns and synchronization completes.
      Offline-first design benefits
      The offline-first architecture provides several advantages over traditional online-only
      applications:
         Faster load times: No round trips to the server for every screen or data query, resulting in
         near-instantaneous data access
         Consistent experience: Users interact with the same local dataset whether online or
         offline, eliminating connectivity-dependent behavior changes
         Reduced network dependency: Only sync operations hit the server, not every read
         operation, minimizing bandwidth usage and improving reliability
      This design ensures that users can work productively in any network environment, from stable
      Wi-Fi connections to areas with intermittent or no connectivity.
      Last updated on 01/07/2026
         FetchXML editor for offline profiles
         (preview)
         [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
         FetchXML is Dataverse's native query language that lets makers write data filters as XML code,
         similar to writing a formula, but more powerful. Use the FetchXML editor to optimize complex
         profiles for better performance and avoid sync timeouts on large tables (100K+ records).
         This feature is best suited for advanced makers and developers who are comfortable working
         with XML and need more control than what the visual filter builder provides.
            ） Important
                 This is a preview feature.
                 Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
                 functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use   , and are
                 available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
                 provide feedback.
                 This feature is being gradually rolled out across regions and might not be available
                 yet in your region.
         Benefits of the FetchXML editor
         The FetchXML editor offers several advantages over the visual expression builder for defining
         offline data filters.
               Support for hierarchical conditions:
               The FetchXML editor supports building complex, hierarchical conditions such as under,
               eq-or-under, above, and eq-or-above on hierarchy-enabled lookups. Learn more about
               querying hierarchical data
                XML
                <fetch>
                  <entity
                    name="account">
            <filter
                type="and">
                <condition
                attribute="statecode"
                operator="eq"
                value="0" />
            </filter>
            <link-entity
                name="businessunit"
                from="businessunitid"
                to="owningbusinessunit"
                link-type="any">
                <filter
                type="and">
                <condition
                   attribute="businessunitid"
                   operator="eq-or-under"
                   value="{YOUR-PARENT-BU-GUID}" />
                </filter>
           </link-entity>
         </entity>
         </fetch>
        Support for checks against unrelated tables:
        The FetchXML editor lets you link to other tables even if they don't have a direct
        relationship with the primary table, provided you specify valid from and to attributes. This
        capability is especially useful in complex offline scenarios where multiple entities share a
        common foreign key but aren't directly related.
         XML
         <fetch
             distinct="false"
             latematerialize="true"
             options="DisableRowGoal, EnableOptimizerHotfixes">
         <entity
             name="cr57f_producttranslation">
             <filter
                type="and">
                <link-entity
                name="cr57f_userlanguagepreference"
                from="cr57f_language_id"
                to="cr57f_language_id"
                link-type="any">
                <filter
                   type="and">
                   <condition
                      attribute="cr57f_user_id"
                      operator="eq"
                      value="user_002" />
                </filter>
                </link-entity>
            </filter>
           </entity>
         </fetch>
        Query optimization support by using late materialization and query hints:
        The editor exposes advanced optimization controls directly on the <fetch> element,
        including:
        latematerialize="true": By using latematerialize="true", you optimize query
        performance by narrowing down matching records before retrieving all their column data.
        This attribute reduces the load when syncing large tables during offline sync. Learn more
        about using late materialize
         XML
         <fetch
           distinct="false"
           latematerialize="true"
           options="OptimizeForUnknown,ENABLE_HIST_AMENDMENT_FOR_ASC_KEYS">
         <entity
           name="msdyn_workorder">
           <filter
              type="and">
              <condition
              attribute="statecode"
              operator="eq"
              value="0" />
              <condition
              attribute="msdyn_systemstatus"
              operator="in">
              <value>690970000</value>
              <value>690970001</value>
              </condition>
           </filter>
           <!-- Booking chain -->
           <link-entity
              name="bookableresourcebooking"
              from="msdyn_workorder"
              to="msdyn_workorderid"
              link-type="any">
              <filter
              type="and">
              <condition
                 attribute="statecode"
                 operator="eq"
                 value="0" />
              <filter
                 type="or">
                 <condition
                    attribute="starttime"
                    operator="today" />
                 <condition
                    attribute="starttime"
                    operator="next-seven-days" />
              </filter>
              </filter>
              <link-entity
                 name="bookingstatus"
                 from="bookingstatusid"
                 to="bookingstatus"
                 link-type="any">
                 <filter
                    type="and">
                    <condition
                       attribute="statecode"
                       operator="eq"
                       value="0" />
                 </filter>
              </link-entity>
              <link-entity
                 name="bookableresource"
                 from="bookableresourceid"
                 to="resource"
                 link-type="any">
                 <filter
                    type="and">
                    <condition
                       attribute="userid"
                       operator="eq-userid" />
                 </filter>
              </link-entity>
           </link-entity>
           <!-- Customer asset -->
           <link-entity
                 name="msdyn_customerasset"
                 from="msdyn_customerassetid"
                 to="msdyn_customerasset"
                 link-type="any">
              <filter
              type="and">
              <condition
                 attribute="statecode"
                 operator="eq"
                 value="0" />
              </filter>
              <!-- Account -->
              <link-entity
                 name="account"
                 from="accountid"
                 to="msdyn_account"
                 link-type="any">
              <filter
                 type="and">
                        <condition
                           attribute="statecode"
                           operator="eq"
                           value="0" />
                   </filter>
                  </link-entity>
                 </link-entity>
                </entity>
                </fetch>
              The options attribute passes SQL Server query hints. Learn more about using these
              options
         How the FetchXML editor works
         You access the FetchXML editor through the offline profile configuration experience in Power
         Apps. You write or paste a FetchXML query, and the editor validates it in real time before you
         save.
            1. In Power Apps  , go to your environment's settings and open the Offline Profiles page.
              Select an existing offline profile or create a new one, and then select Edit profile.
            2. In the offline profile editor, add or select the table whose data you want to filter for
              offline use.
            3. Under Filter, choose Custom or Related rows, and then select Edit filter.
            4. In the filter editor, scroll down and select View/Edit FetchXML to open the FetchXML
              code editor.
       5. Modify the existing FetchXML query or paste a new one. The editor automatically
        validates syntax and structure as you edit, checking for:
           A required <fetch> root element with at least one <entity> element
           Only supported FetchXML tags
           Elements placed inside the correct parent elements
           A maximum of 500 filter clauses
        If the editor detects an issue, such as a missing required element or an unsupported
        <link-entity> usage, it shows a clear error message so you can fix it before saving.
       6. After your FetchXML query is valid, select Apply to convert the filter, and then Save the
        offline profile.
       ） Important
       Always select Apply and then Save after editing FetchXML. If you don't save, your changes
       are discarded.
     After saving, the offline profile uses your custom FetchXML filter for data sync. If your query
     uses only features supported by the visual builder, those filters continue to display in the
     Expression Builder UI. If you use advanced FetchXML-only features, the visual filter UI might
     not render them. Use the FetchXML Editor for any future edits to that filter.
     Best practices
        Apply performance hints like latematerialize="true" or hint="union" for large datasets.
        Validate your FetchXML by using the built-in editor checks before saving.
        Save your offline profile immediately after applying FetchXML changes.
        Use only supported FetchXML constructs for offline profiles, such as link-type="any" or
        link-type="not any".
        Avoid unsupported join types like inner or outer in offline filters.
        Keep filter clauses under the 500-clause limit per query.
        Don't ignore validation errors. Queries must be well-formed and complete.
     Limitations
        Queries must start with a <fetch> root element and include at least one <entity>
        element.
         Only supported FetchXML elements are allowed. Unknown or unsupported tags trigger
         validation errors.
         Elements must follow proper parent-child nesting rules.
         <link-entity> inside <filter> must use link-type="any" or link-type="not any". Inner and
         outer joins aren't supported.
         FetchXML <attribute> tags aren't used for column selection in offline sync. Use the Filter
         Columns option instead.
         Explicit pagination attributes like page and count are ignored in offline profiles.
         Queries are limited to a maximum of 500 filter clauses.
      Last updated on 04/08/2026
       Mobile offline for canvas apps overview
       Article • 06/05/2024
       If users of your Dataverse-based canvas app have spotty or no Internet access, you can
       easily provide offline-first access with simple switches and a canvas control. Basic
       offline-first apps are easy to make. Just build your app with normal Power Fx formulas,
       and Power Apps offline features handle everything else.
       You can also build complex offline apps using custom offline profiles. An offline profile is
       the configuration that determines the data synchronized to users’ devices. Offline
       profiles help you to optimize your app's performance by reducing the amount of data
       downloaded to the device. For example, while you may have access rights to millions of
       records in a table, your app may need only a thousand of them. If you download only a
       thousand records, your app performs better. If you need more than 15 tables in your
       offline app, you may want to consider using a custom offline profile.
       To get started with mobile offline, turn on the offline feature in your app and in the
       tables your app uses. A basic offline screen template is automatically inserted into the
       app for you to use directly or as a starting point. Set up mobile offline for canvas apps.
       Mobile offline-first
       Offline-first means that all the data users need when they're offline is copied to their
       mobile device. It requires network access to download the data initially, but after that,
       users work exclusively with the data stored locally on their device, even when they're
       online. Moving on and off the network doesn't affect the performance of the app
       because it's using local data. Power Apps monitors your app's network access. When it
       detects a connection, it automatically syncs any local changes to the server and
       downloads any updates from the server. The offline features handle conflict detection
       and minimize the use of system resources.
       When you turn on the offline capability in your app, the app always runs offline-first,
       with or without an Internet connection. This functionality optimizes offline performance
       and creates a consistent experience for users as they change locations.
       Why use offline for canvas apps instead of
       LoadData/SaveData?
       There are some key benefits to using the built-in offline functionality for canvas apps
       instead of LoadData/SaveData Power Fx functions.
                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
              Topic                    LoadData/SaveData                   Built-in offline
              Power Apps Studio        Custom                              Built-in
              support
              Code complexity          Power Fx code complexity scales up  No code
                                       with data complexity
              Supported Power Fx       All                                 Partial (See Mobile offline
              functions                                                    limitations for canvas apps.)
              App checker rules        None                                Common configuration
                                                                           problems are flagged
              Offline or connectivity  Not provided/custom only            Automatic
              user experience
              Sync user experience or  Not provided/custom only            Automatic
              status
              Image and file support   Yes, but may run into performance   Yes
                                       and memory limits
              Optimized delta sync     No                                  Yes
              Conflict resolution      Manual                              Automatic
              Local data store         Files                               Transactional database
              Automatically handles    No                                  Yes
              schema changes
              Fast app launch with     No                                  Yes
              large datasets
              Data size limit          Device dependent, 30-70 MB in       Device dependent, 3 million
                                       most cases                          rows
             See also
             Work with canvas apps offline
             Feedback
             Was this page helpful?           
                                       Yes       No
       Provide product feedback
         Set up mobile offline for canvas apps
         Turn on offline mode in your canvas app if users need to work without worrying about their
         Internet connection.
         Prerequisites
              You must have the Environment Maker, System Administrator, or System Customizer role
              to set up offline mode for canvas apps. These roles have create, read, write, delete, and
              share privileges on Canvas App, Mobile offline profile, and Sync Error tables. Learn about
              predefined security roles.
              Users with the Basic User role can't open an offline application. You must create a custom
              security role with read privileges on Canvas App, Mobile offline profile, and Sync
              Error tables.
              If you already have a custom security role, make sure it grants read privileges on Canvas
              App, Mobile offline profile, and Sync Error tables. Learn about Create or edit a security
              role to manage access.
           ７ Note
           It's recommended that the canvas app is in a solution. The offline profile App usage field
           in the Power Platform admin center   (Environements > select an environment >
           Settings > User + permissions > Mobile configuration) only applies to apps within a
           solution.
         Optimize your app for mobile offline
         Mobile apps run on small screens with limited connectivity. Before you set up offline mode,
         make sure your canvas app is optimized for offline and mobile use. Consider the user scenarios
         you want to cover and the amount of data the app uses. Create an app that's simple and
         lightweight.
         Follow these best practices when you build an app for mobile offline use:
              Performance is critical when you run an app on mobile. For more information about
              creating performant canvas apps, see Overview of creating performant apps.
              Identify the on-the-go scenarios that are functionally related, such as tasks that are
              performed by users who work in the field.
              Reduce the complexity of your app by limiting the number of tables that need to be
              downloaded. Sometimes it's better to have two apps instead of one.
              Use views that are optimized for the experience rather than displaying a large set of data.
              For example, it's preferable to use the My active accounts view, rather than the All
              accounts view.
         Turn on offline capability for tables
         Tables included in an offline app must be configured for offline use. Some built-in tables have
         it by default. Some tables can't be used offline. However, you can turn on offline capability for
         any new, custom table.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. In the left side panel, select Tables.
            3. Select a table, and then select Edit.
            4. Select Edit table properties.
            5. Select Advanced options, and then scroll to the Rows in this table section.
            6. Select Can be taken offline.
       7. Select Save.
     Turn on offline capability for your app
       1. In Power Apps Studio, in the left side panel, select Apps.
       2. Select your canvas app, and then select Edit.
       3. Select Settings.
       4. Select General.
       5. Turn on the Can be used offline option.
        If you don't see the Can be used offline option, make sure the app is in a solution.
       6. Select an offline profile. You have two options:
           Autogenerated profile: This setting downloads all the tables used in your app
           automatically. Autogenerated profiles are a starting point to create an offline profile
           and help makers validate their offline data. These profiles can be resource-intensive
           as they don't compute optimal filters for each table or assess the amount of data
           the app must download offline. App makers need to review and refine these profiles
           based on their use case.
           Custom mobile profile: Custom offline profiles let makers add only relevant tables,
           limit data usage and include filters based on their needs and best practices. These
           profiles offer flexibility and control, enhancing the user experience by downloading
           relevant data, improving sync times, and boosting query performance.
       7. Close the Settings window, and then save and publish your app.
     A page that's based on the Offline template is automatically inserted in the app. The page
     contains an icon that uses the Connection Power Fx function to reflect the app's offline sync
     status. You can use it as-is or customize it, as appropriate.
       ７ Note
          You can use the same, offline profile in different canvas apps. The users can use the
          apps and share the same, offline profile in disconnected mode. The updates done in
          one app are reflected in the other apps since the apps share the same, local storage
          with this setup.
          ALM isn't currently supported for autogenerated profiles.
                 If your organization uses ALM and you're moving your app between environments,
                 ensure that your offline profile is tested for all use cases in the target environment.
         If the automatically generated offline profile doesn't meet your needs, create your own. Learn
         about guidelines for offline profiles.
         Create an offline profile
         You need to publish your new offline profile before you can select it in your canvas app's
         settings. If you edit and publish an offline profile, you must also publish any canvas apps that
         use it.
         There are two ways you can create offline profile.
         Create a custom mobile offline profile from within Power apps
         studio
            1. Sign in to Power Apps Studio   .
            2. In the left side panel, select Apps.
            3. Select your app, and then select Edit.
            4. Select Settings > General.
            5. Turn on the Can be used offline setting.
            6. In the drop-down menu, select an offline profile. You can select the Auto-generated
              option or New profile with current app data.
            7. Enter a name and description for the profile. Add the tables you need for the profile. For
              those tables, apply filters and choose columns as described in optimize the offline profile.
            8. Save the profile.
            9. Publish the profile.
         Create profiles from within Power Platform admin center (with
         admin rights)
            1. Sign in to the Power Platform admin center    using an admin account.
            2. In the left side panel, select Environments.
            3. Select an environment, and then select Settings.
            4. Expand Users + permissions, and then select Mobile configuration.
            5. Select Create new profile.
              6. Enter a name and description, and then select Create.
              7. After the profile is created, select it to continue editing it.
             ） Important
             Don't add users in the offline profile in the Users with offline access area. This capability is
             only applicable to model-driven apps and is restricted to selected users.
           Add a table to an offline profile and apply filters
           Applying an appropriate filter for each of the tables configured in the offline profile is critical to
           limiting the amount of data that downloads on users' devices.
           Be sure that you configure at least one of the profile rules for each table to download its data.
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
            Customization                  Recommendation
            Organization rows - if         If you want to define this filter, then you have to pick at least one of the
            selected, then select at       given options. It's highly recommended to not have a business unit-level
            least one of these options:    filter for a table, unless there's a strong justification. It's recommended for a
                                           master data scenario with a small data set, like country codes.
            - User's rows
            - Team rows
            - Business unit rows
            All rows                       If you select this filter, you can't define any other filter rules.
            Related rows only              Be sure that the related table has been added to the offline profile.
            Custom                         You can define a custom filter up to three levels deep.
              1. In the Data available offline section, select Add table.
              2. Select a table, and then define the filters.
              3. Select Next.
              4. Set the following filters:
                  a. Choose the row that you want to make available offline. For the Custom option, use
                    the expression builder to set up advanced conditions.
        b. Relationships lists the different relationships available between the current table and
          other tables added in the offline profile. Selecting a relationship ensures that related
          rows following that relationship are downloaded and made available offline.
         c. Sync interval defines the sync frequency to be applied on the device that syncs with
          the data with the server. If a table's data doesn't change frequently, like a catalog or a
          product table, you might want to focus on only syncing data when necessary, such as
          refreshing only once a day.
       5. Select Save.
       ７ Note
       Each table in your offline setup can link to up to 15 other tables through filters or
       relationships. If you link to a table that already connects to other tables, those connections
       count toward the limit. For example, if Table B connects to two other tables and you link
       Table A to Table B, Table A has three relationships: one for Table B and two for the tables
       Table B connects to. This setup is a transitive relationship. If any table has more than 15
       total connections, you get an error and can't publish the offline profile.
     Using the Offline template and offline status icon
     To make it easier to create or convert a canvas app for offline use, we created the Offline
     template. The template includes a globe icon in the navigation bar that shows the connectivity
     and sync state, putting offline at the center of the experience. Users always know whether their
     device and data are ready to go.
     A new page created from the Offline template is automatically inserted as soon as you turn on
     the offline capability in your canvas app.
     You can also add a new page based on the Offline template the same way you add pages from
     any other template.
     The globe icon in the template's navigation bar uses different icons depending on the value of
     the Power Fx Connection.Sync function. You can create your own icon and set the Icon
     property using the following Power Fx script:
      PowerApps Formula
      Switch(Connection.Sync, 
         ConnectionSync.Connected, Icon.Globe,  
         ConnectionSync.ConnectedWithWarning, Icon.GlobeWarning, 
         ConnectionSync.ConnectedPendingUpsync, Icon.GlobeChangesPending, 
         ConnectionSync.ConnectedError, Icon.GlobeError, 
              ConnectionSync.ConnectedRefresh, Icon.GlobeRefresh, 
              ConnectionSync.NotConnected, Icon.GlobeNotConnected,  
              ConnectionSync.NotConnectedWithWarning, Icon.GlobeWarning, 
              ConnectionSync.NotConnectedPendingUpsync, Icon.GlobeChangesPending, 
              ConnectionSync.NotConnectedSyncError, Icon.GlobeError) 
         You can set the OnSelect property using the Power Fx function ShowHostInfo to show the
         Device status page when selecting the globe icon.
           PowerApps Formula
           ShowHostInfo(HostInfo.OfflineSync)
         You can set the Visible property using the Power Fx function Host to only show the globe icon
         when the app is used on a player that's supporting the offline mode.
           PowerApps Formula
           Host.OfflineEnabled
         Export a solution that contains a canvas app
         enabled for offline
         When you export a solution with an offline canvas app, you also need to export the offline
         profile for the app, as it's a dependency of the app.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps    and in the left navigation pane, select Solutions.
            2. Select the solution that you want to export and then select Edit.
            3. Select the canvas app that is enabled for offline and then select Advanced > Add
              required objects.
         Make sure that the associated offline profile is in the solution and then you can export it.
         See also
              Mobile offline limitations for canvas apps
              Best practices for developing an app for offline use
              Optimize the offline profile
      Last updated on 01/08/2026
         Configure files and images in offline canvas
         apps
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
         This article explains how to configure files and images in a Power Apps table for offline canvas
         apps.
         Prerequisites
         Have an existing canvas app with Dataverse tables. For more information, see Build an app.
         View column properties for a file or image
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. In the left navigation menu, select Tables. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
              More and then select the item you want.
            3. Select the table that has the columns you want to view.
            4. Under Schema, select Columns.
            5. Select the Display name of a column where Data type is set to File or Image.
            6. The column properties show the Data type. Expand Advanced options to view the
              maximum size for a file or image. For more information about columns, see Columns
              overview.
         Download options
         In an offline-enabled canvas app, there are two ways to download files and images:
              On view: Downloaded when you view them—the default option.
              On sync: Downloaded during offline sync when device is connected.
         Download files and images on view
         When files and images are configured to download on view, the content is downloaded on the
         device when the user opens a file or when an image is presented to the user. Files and images
         are downloaded when the device is connected to the network and can be used afterward
         without connectivity.
         This mode is enabled by default without any specific configuration.
         If you want to keep this default, then you don't need to proceed with this article.
         Download files and images on sync
         When files and images are configured to download on sync, they download during the offline
         sync when the device is connected to internet. After the download is complete, users can
         access this content from the device's local storage, even when the device is offline. Users are
         notified when the download of files and images is complete. Use download on sync when you
         only need to make a limited number of files or images available offline.
         The remainder of this article helps you configure on sync.
         Configure on sync
         To configure the automatic download of files and images on sync, you need to create a
         custom, mobile offline profile. There are two ways to configure sync.
         Configure on sync from within Power apps studio
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. In the left navigation pane, select Apps.
            3. Select a canvas app, and then on the command bar, select Edit to open your app in
              editing mode in canvas app designer.
            4. Select Settings > General.
            5. Set the Can be used offline toggle to On.
            6. Under Select offline profile, select Edit selected profile from the "...".
            7. Select the table that has file or image column that you want to enable for offline.
            8. In the table details pane that appears, under the section Related rows + Files and
              Images, select the file and image column that you want to configure on sync.
            9. Go back and select Save.
         Configure on sync from within Power Platform admin center
         (requires admin access)
         You can add both the Image Descriptor and FileAttachment tables to your mobile offline
         profile by configuring the settings of your environment.
            1. Go to Power Platform admin center   and sign-in as an admin.
            2. Select Environments from the navigation menu.
            3. Choose an environment and then select Settings on the menu bar.
            4. Expand Users + permissions, then select Mobile configuration.
            5. Select a mobile offline profile to edit it.
            6. In the Data available offline section, select Add the table that contains the images or
              files.
            7. To enable offline access for images and files, add the Image Descriptor and
              FileAttachment tables to your mobile offline profile. To add the Image Descriptor table,
              follow these steps:
               a. Select Image Descriptor and then select Next.
              b. Under Choose the rows that you want to make available offline, select Related rows
                 only.
               c. Expand Relationships and select Column name: Display name for each column where
                 Data type is set to Image. In this example, we select the unnamed column names from
                 the DemoTable1 and DemoTable3 tables.
              d. Select Save.
            8. To add the FileAttachment table, follow these steps:
               a. Select FileAttachment and then select Next.
              b. Under Choose the rows that you want to make available offline, select Related rows
                 only.
               c. Expand Relationships and select Column name: My column name for each column
                 where Data type is set to File. In this example we add Column name: MyFile from the
                 DemoTable3 table. Don't select Column name: Regarding..
              d. Select Save.
          Last updated on 02/20/2026
        Work with canvas apps offline
        Article • 07/23/2024
        If a canvas app is designed for offline use, you can work with it on your mobile device
        even when you don't have Internet access. All the data the app needs is stored locally on
        your device. Any changes you make are synchronized with the app server the next time
        your device connects to the network. If you're in the middle of changing some data and
        you lose your network connection, the app saves your changes and uploads them to the
        server when you're back online.
        Initial offline sync
        Before the app can work offline, it needs to download to your device all the data it
        needs to have available. This process is called the initial offline sync. It can take a few
        minutes or longer, depending on how the app was designed.
        The initial offline sync happens automatically when you open the app. A message tells
        you the app is syncing the offline data and the number of rows and tables that are
        downloaded. If the initial sync doesn't complete, it's triggered every time you open the
        app.
        Offline delta sync
        After the initial offline sync, the data that's stored locally is kept in sync with data on the
        app server whenever your device has a network connection. These periodic updates are
        known as "delta" syncs. "Delta" means the minimum data that's changed between two
        syncs on the device. Power Apps syncs every five minutes when you're online.
        Sync status icons
        Depending on how the app was designed, it includes information about its
        synchronization status in the form of a globe with various icons. At a glance, you can tell
        whether:
           The app is connected to the network
           A data update is in progress
           Updated data is waiting to sync
           An error or warning occurred while data was syncing
        The following table describes the icons and their meanings.
                                                                                            ﾉ Expand table
               Icon          Description
                             The app is connected to the Internet.
                             The app isn't connected to the Internet.
                             The app is syncing data.
                             The app has pending changes to upload.
                             The synchronization process encountered an error.
                             The synchronization process encountered a warning.
              To get a description of the sync state, select the icon.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
         Sync data offline in the background
         06/25/2025
         To use an app in offline mode, download the app and sync data to your device.
         You can sync data reliably only when the Power Apps mobile app or Field Service app is open,
         running in the foreground, and your device screen is unlocked. Learn more about sync
         behavior in Work with canvas apps offline.
         The background sync can be enabled on Windows by changing the Let this app run in the
         background setting.
              If you're using Windows 10, see Manage background activity for apps in Windows    for
              more information.
              If you're using Windows 11, complete the following steps:
                 1. Go to Settings > Apps > Installed apps.
                 2. Next to Power Apps or Field Service, select the More options icon (three horizontal
                   dots). Then select Advanced options.
                 3. In the Background apps permissions area, go to the Let this app run in the
                   background setting. Select Power optimized (recommended) from the list.
        Mobile offline limitations for canvas apps
        Before you set up the mobile app in offline mode, review the following limitations. Also, see Best
        practices for developing an app for offline use and Optimize the offline profile.
        Capabilities not supported in offline-enabled apps
                                                                                              ﾉ
                                                                                                 Expand table
          Area              Description
          Canvas app types  The offline-first feature works for standalone canvas apps only. It doesn't work
                            for embedded canvas apps, custom pages, or canvas apps in Teams.
          Connectors        Non-Dataverse connectors, like SharePoint, aren't supported in offline mode.
          Dataverse table   Virtual tables and elastic tables aren't supported in offline mode.
          types
          Power Automate    Power Automate flows aren't supported in offline mode.
          flows
           ７ Note
           If your app connects to data from Excel, CSV files, or SharePoint lists, you can start with
           Copilot to import data to Dataverse. Once your data is in Dataverse, you can turn on offline
           support for your canvas apps with one selection.
        Offline runtime limitations
                                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
          Area                Description
          Offline record      The total number of records synced is limited to 3,000,000. Attempts to sync a larger
          limit               number of records fail. This number also includes hidden tables used for offline
                              capabilities.
          Power Fx functions  The offline-first feature works with Dataverse tables only and doesn't support the
                              following Power Fx functions: Relate, Unrelate
          Area                  Description
          Relationship          In offline mode, canvas apps don't support many-to-many relationships.
                                Filtering on column lookups is limited to one level of the relationship when the app is
                                configured for offline use. Self-referential lookups are also not supported in offline
                                mode. Consider following examples to understand the relationship with Account and
                                Contact information.
                                Supported Lookups:
                                Lookups are supported for one level of relationship. For example:
                                Filter(Account, 'ContactID'.'Zipcode' = "11056")
                                This retrieves all accounts with the zipcode 11056.
                                Unsupported Lookups:
                                1. Self-referential Lookups: Self-referential lookups aren't supported. For example:
                                Filter(Account, 'Parent Account'. 'Name' = "John Doe")
                                This doesn't work because the parent account is a self-reference to the account table.
                                2. Multi-level Relationship Lookups: Lookups involving more than one level of the
                                relationship aren't supported. For example:
                                Filter(Account, 'ContactID'.'Map'.Latitude = "38'53")
                                This doesn't work because it involves more than one level of relationship (Account >
                                Contact > Map).
                                Note: The same limitations apply to the lookup function and the filter function
                                mentioned earlier.
          Tables                Notes aren't supported in offline mode in canvas apps.
          Column types          Calculated and roll-up fields—that are part of rows synced to the client—aren't
                                reevaluated by the client. The reevaluation happens on the server when the updated
                                row is synced.
                                When you run an app in offline mode, mapped fields aren’t prepopulated when you
                                create a new record from a table that has fields mapped to another table.
          Sort order            Items in a gallery may appear in a different order in an offline-capable app if no sort
                                order is selected. Choose a sort order in the gallery control to make sure the app
                                behaves consistently in mobile apps and web browsers.
         Area              Description
         Background        Data can only be synced regularly when Power Apps is running in the foreground of
         synchronization   your device, with the screen unlocked. Learn more in Sync data offline in the
                           background.
        Profile filters limitations
                                                                                     ﾉ
                                                                                         Expand table
         Area              Description
         Relationship      A maximum of 15 relationships is allowed. There's a maximum of one many-to-many
         defined for each  (M:M) or one-to-many (1:M) relationships within the 15 relationships. If any custom
         table             tables demand this scenario, then revisit the data model. No circular references or self-
                           references are supported.
         Images and files  Images and files have the same limitations as any other table. Because of implicitly
                           defined relationships, an offline profile can only contain up to 14 image columns,
                           across all entities.
         Auto-generated    The auto-generated offline profile doesn't handle filters. As a result, for each table used
         offline profile   in the app, it downloads all rows to which the user has permissions.
        See also
        Troubleshoot offline sync errors in the Power Apps mobile app
        Supported platforms for running apps using the Power Apps mobile app
         Last updated on 06/17/2026
        Mobile offline for model-driven apps
        overview
        Article • 05/29/2024
        Wouldn't it be great to use your mobile app without worrying about spotty internet
        connectivity? With model-driven apps made with Power Apps and the new, mobile
        offline-first experience, it's possible. People who need to work from remote locations
        can continue to work seamlessly without worrying about their internet connection.
        With the new, mobile offline experience enabled for your model-driven apps, not only
        can you continue working in offline mode, you also have better device performance, a
        more responsive app, and less drain on the battery because fewer connections are being
        made to the server.
        An internet connection is required to sync data between your mobile device and
        Microsoft Dataverse.
        To get started with mobile offline, an app maker needs to enable and define the tables
        that are available for offline use by using the modern app designer. For more
        information, go to Set up mobile offline.
        Mobile offline is offline-first by default
        Offline-first means that all the data you might need when offline is copied to your
        mobile device. This requires initial network access to download the data. Once you have
        your data, you only work with the data on your local device all the time. This is true both
        when your device is connected and disconnected to the network.
        Moving in and out of network access doesn't affect performance of the app because it's
        using local data. Power Apps monitors network access and automatically syncs the
        changes you make locally with the server, and downloads any updates made on the
        server. The offline features automatically handle spotty network connections, download
        data, upload data, handle conflict detection, and more. The built-in, offline features
        minimize system resources and are highly performant.
        When offline mode is configured and enabled for your model-driven app, anyone who
        uses the Power Apps mobile app can also use the app in offline mode. By default, the
        Power Apps mobile app runs offline-first, either with or without an internet connection.
        This functionality optimizes offline performance and creates a consistent experience for
        users as they change locations:
                     Online: Occurs when an internet connection is available, but offline mode isn't set
                     up. The mobile app functions similar to using the app with an internet connection
                     on your PC. When the internet connection is lost, the mobile app is unusable. This
                     isn't recommended.
                     Offline-first without an internet connection: Data is downloaded and all changes
                     are saved to your mobile device. When the internet connection is restored, the
                     changes are automatically synced to the server.
                     Offline-first with an internet connection: Data is downloaded to the device and all
                     changes are saved locally. Because there's an internet connection, the app
                     automatically attempts to sync every few minutes.
                 ） Important
                 For more information about how to set up mobile offline for canvas apps, go to
                 Develop offline-capable canvas apps
              Offline-first vs. classic offline
              With the offline-first experience, it's important to understand the key benefits of the
              offline-first experience versus the classic offline experience.
                                                                                                ﾉ
                                                                                                    Expand table
                Offline-first                                  Classic offline
                      Your data is always the same,                   Users have the option to skip the initial
                      regardless of your network                      offline sync and stay online, which means
                      connection.                                     that users in your organization might not
                      There's no toggle for users to switch           have the same experience.
                      from offline to online mode. A user             Users have to remember to disable
                      never forgets to sync their changes             the Work in offline mode toggle before
                      back to the server because the app              they can sync changes with the server.
                      does it automatically.                          To save your changes in offline mode, you
                                                                      need to set the Work in offline
                                                                      mode toggle to On. Otherwise, when you're
                                                                      working on a row and suddenly lose your
                                                                      internet connection, your changes are lost.
                                                                      The rows you see in offline mode are listed
                                                                      from the local database. This means that the
                                                                      rows you see in offline mode vs. online
                                                                      mode can be different.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
         Set up mobile offline for model-driven
         apps
         07/31/2025
         Use the modern app designer to enable your model-driven apps for offline use on a mobile
         device. When offline mode is enabled, users interact with their data without internet
         connectivity on the Power Apps mobile app  .
         Prerequisites
         Verify the following prerequisites before you enable mobile offline:
              You need the environment maker, system administrator, or system customizer role to
              configure offline mode for model-driven apps. These roles have Create, Read, Write,
              Delete, and Share privileges on the Mobile offline profile table. For more information, see
              About predefined security roles
              Users with the basic user role can open and use an offline app. This role has the Read
              privilege for the Mobile offline profile table.
              If you have a custom security role, ensure you have the read privilege for the Mobile
              offline profile table. For more information, see Miscellaneous privileges
         Optimize your app for mobile offline
         Mobile apps run on smaller screens with limited connectivity. Before you enable offline mode,
         make sure your model-driven app is optimized for offline and mobile use. Consider the
         number of user scenarios that you want to cover and the amount of data the app uses. Create
         an app that's simple and lightweight.
         If you have desktop and remote mobile users, optimize the user experience by creating two
         separate apps. Create an online app for your office users and another app for your mobile
         users who might have limited connectivity.
         Follow these best practices when building an app for mobile offline use:
              Identify the on-the-go scenarios that functionally relate, such as tasks performed by users
              working in the field.
              Reduce the complexity of your app by limiting the amount of app metadata that needs to
              be downloaded on a user's device. Only add the tables and views that are needed for
              your mobile users. For more information, go to Add a page to your app
              Only keep views that are necessary, and remove any that aren't needed on a day-to-day
              basis. For example, keep the My active accounts view and remove the All accounts view.
              Keep your forms lightweight for a smooth and intuitive experience on small-screen
              devices. The following are possible optimizations for forms on mobile:
                 Build dedicated forms for mobile use.
                 Share forms across the mobile and desktop experience, but disable some fields on
                 mobile.
         Enable your app for offline use
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left pane, select Apps, and then select the model-driven app that you want to
              enable for offline.
            3. Select More (...) > Edit to open the modern app designer.
            4. On the command bar, select Settings.
            5. On the General tab, set the Can be used offline toggle to On.
            6. Select the type of offline profile: Default or Restricted to selected users.
                    If you select Default, the app is enabled for offline use for all users. Select an
                    existing offline profile, or select New profile with current app data. To set up a new
                    offline profile, see Set up a mobile offline profile.
                    If you select Restricted to selected users, the app is enabled for offline use only for
                    a selected list of users. Select one or multiple offline profiles, or select New profile
                    with current app data. To set up a new offline profile, see Set up a mobile offline
                    profile.
                    You must have admin privileges to assign users to an offline profile.
            7. Close the Settings page, and then save and publish your app. When you're done, the app
              is set up for offline use.
         Set up a mobile offline profile
         The mobile offline profile represents the dataset that syncs on a user's device. The profile
         contains the tables, including related filters, that are applied when data is synced to a user's
         device. For more information about offline profiles, see Offline profile guidelines.
         If the offline profile is in advanced mode, you'll need to add users to the offline profile. If you
         don't add a user to the offline profile, the user can't use the app in offline mode.
         Enable a table for offline
         A table needs to be enabled for offline to add it to an offline profile. Some tables are enabled
         for offline by default. Follow these steps to verify whether a table is enabled for offline.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. In the left pane, select Data > Tables.
            3. Select the table that you want to add to an offline profile, and then, on the command bar,
              select Settings.
            4. In the Edit table settings, select Advanced options, and in the Rows in this table section,
              select Can be taken offline.
         An app can only be linked to one profile. However, a profile can be shared between multiple
         apps. This can be useful when multiple apps share the same dataset, as it only needs to be
         downloaded once on the device and is shared between the apps.
    Generate a default profile
    The modern app designer generates a default offline profile based on how the app is
    configured.
    The default offline profile is a starting point to help you quickly build an offline profile. The
    default profile doesn't compute the optimal filters for each table. It's important that you review
    and adjust the proposed filters based on your organization's needs.
      1. Select New profile with current app data.
      2. Review the proposed filters for each table. Make sure that the data downloaded on users'
       devices is limited to only what's necessary. Focus on the tables used most often in your
       app, which in most cases have the Organization rows filter set.
           The tables that are added to the profile also have the Related rows only filter. These are tables
           used in certain views that require related information. You might not need to modify them
           according to your organization's needs.
           Add a table to an offline profile and apply filters
           Applying an appropriate filter for each of the tables configured in the offline profile is critical to
           limiting the amount of data that downloads on users' devices.
           Be sure that you configure at least one of the profile rules for each table to download its data.
                                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
            Customization                  Recommendation
            Organization rows - if         If you want to define this filter, then you have to pick at least one of the
            selected, then select at       given options. It's highly recommended to not have a business unit-level
            least one of these options:    filter for a table, unless there's a strong justification. It's recommended for a
                                           master data scenario with a large data set, like a price list.
            - User's rows
            - Team rows
            - Business unit rows
            All rows                       If you're selecting this filter, you can't define any other filter rules.
          Customization             Recommendation
          Related rows only         Be sure that the related table has been added to the offline profile.
          Custom                    You can define a custom filter up to three levels deep.
         Keep in mind that you can have 15 related tables in a custom filter. You can also have 15
         relationships. These are distinct checks that might not add up. The 15-relationships limit is
         transitive, meaning if table B has N relationships, and you add a reference to table B in table A,
         then it increases the relationship count of A by N+1; one plus the N already in table B. This
         limit is per profile item for a table in the profile.
            1. Select Add table.
            2. Choose a table, and then define the filters.
            3. Set the following filters:
       a. Choose the rows that you want to make available offline. For the Custom option, use
        the expression builder to set up advanced conditions.
       b. Relationships lists the different relationships available between the current table and
        other tables added in the offline profile. Selecting a relationship ensures that related
        rows following that relationship are downloaded and made available offline.
       c. Files and Images define which columns for a file or image need to be downloaded
        offline. For files, you can choose to download every column or none at all. For images,
        you can select each column you want to download granularly.
       d. Sync interval defines the sync frequency to be applied on the device to sync the data
        with the server. If a table's data doesn't change frequently, like a catalog or a product
        table, you might want to focus on only syncing data when necessary, such as
        refreshing only once a day.
        You can only have up to 15 related tables in a profile. If you exceed the limit, you get
        an error and won't be able to publish the offline profile.
      4. Select Add + save to add your table and filters to the profile.
      5. When all tables are properly configured for the profile, select Done > Publish your
       application.
       When the app is published, the app is enabled for offline use.
    Add users to an offline profile
    If you selected the Default offline profile mode, all your users who have access to the app can
    also use it in offline mode.
    However, if you selected Restricted to selected users, you have to manually add users (requires
    admin privileges) to the offline profile. The app is enabled for offline use only for those
    configured users.
      1. Select Add users (requires admin privileges).
            2. Sign in to the Power Platform admin center.
            3. In the Users with offline access area, select Add users.
            4. Select the users that you want to add to the mobile offline profile. The users that are
              added, based on teams, are listed under each team. Users that are added individually are
              listed as individual users.
            5. When you're done adding people, select Save.
              If you made any changes to a Microsoft Entra ID group team, you must remove and add
              the team back to the mobile offline profile for the changes to take effect.
         Enable mobile offline classic
         Offline-first is the default mode when you enable an app for offline use. If you want to switch
         to the offline classic mode, you need to enable it for your model-driven app. It's a separate app
         setting for each app.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left pane, select Apps, and then select the model-driven app that you want to
              enable for offline.
       3. Select More (...) > Edit to open the modern app designer.
       4. On the command bar, select Settings.
       5. On the Features tab, set the Enable offline classic toggle to Yes.
       6. Select Save and then publish the app.
     Define sync settings on mobile
     You can allow users to control the automatic sync intervals or the connection type to
     synchronize the data.
       1. On the command bar, select Settings.
       2. Select the Upcoming tab:
           Set the Allow users to adjust sync frequency option to On to adjust the sync
           interval to sync more or less frequently depending on individual needs. Users can
           choose to not automatically sync, if they only want to sync on demand.
           Set the Allow users to sync on Wi-Fi only option to On to let users choose if their
           automatic sync happens on cellular networks and Wi-Fi connections or only when
           connected to a Wi-Fi network.
     Turn on Online mode
     Offline-first mode provides the best experience for users in no and low network conditions.
     Once your data is synchronized, you work with the data on your local device regardless of the
     network status. However, if your offline profile includes filters, you may not be able to access all
     the data you could when online in a browser, even when your device is connected to the
     network.
     If it's important for users to access data that's not downloaded to their devices, you can
     activate the Online mode toggle that's visible to users in the Device status page. When users
     use the Online mode toggle, they can access data that's not synchronized to the local device.
     The toggle can be activated only when the device is connected to a network.
       1. On the command bar, select Settings.
       2. Select the Upcoming tab.
       3. Set the Allow users to work in online mode option to On to let users choose if they want
        to use the app in online mode when connected to a network.
