           Another possible extension to the app would be to add Font as a Property,
           either as one variable to be used across all controls, or once per control (like
           how the other styling properties are defined separately for primary buttons, or
           secondary buttons). The font throughout the Milestones app is Segoe UI and
           there was no need identified for theming of the font.
       Updating the theme in the sample app
       template
       In this section, we'll see how we can change a property of a particular control and how
       the control gets updated across various screens. In our example, we'll update the Fill
       property of the Primary button and see how the button color changes in the Dark mode,
       and the Default mode.
        1. Go to the Loading Screen and select the OnVisible property in the dropdown.
        2. Expand the formula bar and scroll down to the ButtonPrimary > Fill function.
        3. Update the last two parameters to Red and DarkRed.
       4. Go to another screen and then back to Loading Screen for the OnVisible function
        to run.
       5. Go to the Projects screen, select the Filter button to open the Filter pop-up and
        notice the color of the Apply button is now DarkRed.
       6. Go to the Hidden Admin Screen, hold Alt key on the keyboard, and select the
        Dark Mode On toggle.
                 7. Go to the Loading Screen again for the function to load and then come back to the
                    Projects screen. Notice the screen is now in dark mode (with the background dark),
                    and the Apply button color has now changed to Red.
                 8. Similarly, changing properties of the SecondaryButton would have changed colors
                    for the secondary button, such as the Clear button.
                      ７ Note
                      Updating the fill function directly is a quick way of testing theming as shown
                      earlier. If the color needs to be changed for not just the Primary Button
                      control but for all other controls where it is being used as well, then the color
                      palette under the variable gblAppColors should be updated with the formula
                      of the desired colors and names that makes the most sense to your
                      organization. For example,companynameDefaultHeader: ColorValue("#30D5C8")
                      would be the formula for turquoise blue.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
       Provide product feedback
       Granting permission to tables in
       Dataverse for Microsoft Teams
       Article • 01/20/2023
       When building Power Apps, one important consideration is data security. Your apps
       drive important business processes, and if users can see sensitive data or delete records
       that they shouldn't have access to, it can disrupt your business.
       For example, if you've an app with sensitive customer data, unauthorized access to the
       data could put your company at risk of compliance with privacy laws.
       You may think "I'll just obscure access to sensitive data in my app!" However, if the
       underlying data source is shared with users, they can still get to the data, or build new
       apps on the data source, giving them access to the restricted records.
       One of the advantages of building Power Apps in Teams with Dataverse for Teams is that
       it provides the ability to set the table permissions to your specific business needs that
       map the security roles in Teams—such as Owners, Members, Guests, and App Users.
       For example, if there's a table that the users should only be able to modify for the
       records that they own, Dataverse for Teams offers a table permission called Collaborate
       that gives users the ability to only edit records that they own. In this article, we'll review
       the table permissions in Dataverse for Teams, and learn about how you can use them to
       secure your important business applications.
        ７ Note
        Only team owners have the ability to edit table permissions currently.
       Watch this video to learn how to configure table permissions:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=23f33cc0-7db3-40fc-85e9-
       d6c3057b2489&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fdataverse-for-
       teams-table-permissions
       Understanding team roles
       Permission to apps and the data that they use in Teams are based on the following roles
       in Teams team.
          Owner - A team member with the owner role. This includes the creator of the
          team, and anyone who has been given the owner role by another users. Owners
          get full access to the data used in apps in the team.
          Member - A team member who isn't an owner. By default, team members get full
          access like owners, but you can also change the permission for team members. You
          might want to restrict members from being able to edit certain tables.
          Guest - A guest is someone outside of your organization who is added to the
          team. By default, guests can create records, but not view records created by others.
          Colleagues with access: With Power Apps for Teams, you can share an app with
          Azure AD security group whose members need not be part of the Teams team
          where the app was built. This enables you to add users to the application without
          having to add them to the specific team, and opens up “Broad Distribution”
          scenarios. For example, you may want to build an app that is enabled for every
          accountant in the organization, or even every employee in that organization.
       Understanding table permissions
       When assigning security to a table, the following are the permissions that you can
       assign:
          Full Access – Allows end users to see and edit all records in the table.
          Collaborate – Allows end users to see all records and create new records. But they
          can only edit or delete their own records. An example for when you want to use
          collaborate is "up votes" in the Ideas the Perspectives app. You want each user of
          the app to view the up-votes of other users. But they shouldn't be able to change
          the votes for any users other than their own.
          Reference – Provides a read-only view of data. Users can't create, edit, or delete
          any records. An example is in Bulletins app—if you want users to read bulletin
          records but not edit them, you'd give them Reference permission on the Bulletin
          table.
          Private – Users can create new records. Additionally, they can view, edit, or delete
          their own records only. An example is in the Issue reporting app—if you want users
          to only be able to create and see their own issue records in Dataverse, you'd give
          them Private permission on the Issue Report table.
       Table permissions in real-world scenario
       Let’s take a look at how table permissions work in practice. We'll create a table, and then
       show what two different users see.
       ７ Note
       To complete this part of the lesson, you'll need an environment with two user
       logins. One of them having the team owner role and another with team member (a
       member of the team but not granted owner role)
       1. Sign in to Teams as the Team owner.
       2. Create an app and the table in team with a Dataverse for Teams database.
       3. Right-click on the Power Apps icon and pop out the app.
       4. Create a new app.
         a. App name: "Vehicle Manager"
        b. Select Create new table and name it "Vehicle".
         c. Add columns: "Make", "Model", "Year Manufactured".
        d. Select Show/hide columns.
        e. From Show/hide column dialog, select the Owner field and select Save.
        Your table should now look like this:
       5. Add a record to the table:
         a. Select Add row.
        b. Enter record details.
         c. The owner field of the created record will reflect your logged-in user account.
       6. Select the area outside of the table definition screen to return to the app.
       7. Save and Publish the app. You'll need to select a channel in which the app will be
        displayed—select + next to the desired channel name to select the channel.
      Configure and verify table permissions
      We're going to set the permissions for the vehicles table for Team members:
       1. In Teams, open the Power Apps app. Right-click on the Power Apps icon in Teams,
        and select Pop out app. This will pop out the app in a new window, so if you move
        somewhere else in Teams, you won’t lose your changes.
       2. Select the Build tab.
       3. Select the team that contains the Vehicle Manager app.
       4. In the Items created for… area, select See all.
       5. Select Tables from the solution components bar.
       6. Select the Vehicle table and then select Manage permissions.
       7. Select the Member node. The initial permission will show Full access. Select the
        permission Private and select Save.
      Next, we'll log in to Teams as a user who is a non-owner Team member to observe their
      experience.
       1. Log into Teams using a user who is a member of the team in which the app is
        installed.
       2. Select the channel where the app is installed.
       3. Select the tab for the Vehicle Manager app.
       4. The app should open for the user, but no records will show in the gallery, as the
        user only has visibility to their own records.
       5. Select New record to create a new vehicle record, select the check mark to save
        the record.
       6. You should now see one record in the gallery.
      Log out of Teams and log back in as the Team owner. We'll now go to the table and see
      the created data.
       1. Log in to Teams using the Team owner personal.
       2. Right-click on the Power Apps icon and pop out the app.
       3. Select the Build tab.
       4. Select the team in which the Vehicle Manager app is installed
       5. Select the Vehicle table
       6. Select Edit.
                7. You'll now see two records in the Vehicle table, each with a different owner.
             So how would this apply to one of the sample app templates for Teams?
             For example, with Bulletins we might set the following permissions for the tables in the
             app:
                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
              Table             Permission   Reason
              Bulletin          Reference    Users should read all bulletins, but not edit or create bulletins.
              Bulletin Bookmark Private      Users should create their own bulletins, but not view or edit
                                             other users’ bookmarks.
              Bulletin Category Reference    Users should read all categories but not edit or create
                                             categories.
              Bulletin Category Private      Users should create their own category preferences but
              Preference                     shouldn't be able to read or edit other users category
                                             preferences.
              Bulletin Contact  Reference    Users should read all contact records but not create or edit
                                             contacts.
              Bulletin FAQ      Reference    Users should read all FAQ records but not create or edit
                                             existing FAQ records.
              Bulletin FAQ      Reference    Users should read all FAQ categories but not create or edit
              Category                       existing FAQ records
              Bulletin Link     Reference    Users should read all links but not create or edit existing link
                                             records.
              Bulletin Link     Reference    Users should read all link categories but not create or edit
              Category                       existing link categories.
              Bulletin Read     Private      Users should be able to create new read receipts when they
              Receipts                       view a bulletin, but not read or edit other users read receipts.
              Bulletin User     Private      Users should be able to create new user setting records but
              Settings                       not read or edit other users setting records.
              What permissions should I share?
              Before assigning permissions, you should plan your security based on the personas of
              users of your app. Who will administer the app? Who will use the app? How will they use
              it?
              For example, the Inspection sample app template for Teams is designed to address the
              following personas:
                    Inspection manager - Creates Inspection forms and manages the list of locations
                    or assets.
                    Inspection reviewer - Reviews inspection data and approves inspections.
                    Inspection User - Completes the inspections.
              Once we have the personas defined, relate these personas to the team role to which
              they should be assigned:
                    Inspection manager - Since inspection managers will need full access to create
                    inspection forms and other system table records, we'll make them owners in the
                    team.
                    Inspection reviewer - Since inspection reviewers should be able to edit all
                    inspections, but they won't create inspection forms, we'll make them team
                    members. This will enable us to give them reference access to the Area Inspection
                    Checklist table (where inspection form data is stored), but full access to Area
                    Inspection table (where inspection records are stored).
                    Inspection user - Inspection users should only be able to submit new inspections,
                    but not create new inspection forms or see other user’s inspections. So we won't
                    make them members of the team in which the app is installed—we'll share the app
                    with them as colleagues, and give them Reference permission to Area Inspection
                    Checklist and Private permission to Area Inspection. This will allow users to view
                    inspection forms and create their own inspection records.
              For more details about the recommended table permissions for the sample app
              templates for Teams, see articles about deploying sample app templates broadly, such
              as Deploy Profile + as broad distribution app.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
           Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for
           sample app templates
           Article • 02/08/2023
           In this article, learn about the frequently asked questions and the answers about using
           the sample app templates.
              ） Important
              For any issues, feedback, support, or changes related to sample app templates, go
              to https://github.com/microsoft/teams-powerapps-app-templates/issues   and
              submit an issue or a pull request.
           When I try to install a sample app template, I
           get an error that the app is already in the team.
           You may see the following error when you try to install a sample app template in a team
           that already has the app installed, but you’re not the app owner, or the team owner.
            This app is already in this team  
            To update it, you must be its owner or a team owner.
           When this happens, use the installed app, or install the app in a different team.
           How can I move an app to another channel in
           the same Team?
           For the steps to move an app, go to Move an app to another Teams channel in the same
           team.
           How do I delete the sample data from the
           sample app templates?
           For the steps to delete sample data from the sample app templates, go to Remove
           sample data.
       Planner tasks are created with “Former
       Member” instead of the name of the assigned
       user
       When you assign a task in the Issue reporting, or Inspection apps who isn't a member of
       the Teams team, the user's name on the task will show as "Former member". To correctly
       display the user's name, add the user to the Team where the app is installed.
       Why can't I create tasks in Inspection app?
       If a user isn't allowed to create tasks using a mobile device in the Inspection app:
         1. Open Manage inspections in Power Apps Studio.
         2. Select Settings.
         3. In the Planner drop-down, select the Planner that you want to use.
         4. Save
       Inspection app forms are slow
       If your inspection forms are loading slowly, reduce the size of images used in the
       inspection steps. Users can't interact with the form before all images on the form are
       loaded.
     Known issues and limitations
     09/03/2025
     This article provides details about the known issues and limitations when using Dataverse for
     Teams environments.
     Additional components
     The following components aren't supported:
        Model-driven apps
        AI Builder
       ７ Note
       Custom connectors are supported only if both of these conditions are met:
          The app or flow is running in the context of Microsoft Teams.
          And, the custom connector points at an APIM endpoint in Azure.
     Controls
     To learn about the limitations of controls in Dataverse for Teams environments, go to
     Limitations of controls in Power Apps.
     Region availability
     Dataverse for Teams currently isn't available in:
        Power Apps operated by 21Vianet in China
     Hidden membership groups
     Dataverse for Teams doesn't support hidden membership groups. You'll receive the following
     error when you try to create an app in a team that has the group visibility set to
     Hiddenmembership.
      Existing limits on this team
      You're unable to continue due to an administrative setting on this team. You can try
       again with another team.
       The group may have hidden membership enabled by your administrator. Try using Dataverse
       for Teams on a new Teams team, an existing team that doesn't have hidden membership
       enabled, or contact your administrator.
       Localization
       Localization of Power Apps Studio isn't supported.
       Power Apps component framework
       Power Apps component framework isn't supported.
       Required fields
       There's no enforcement of user-created required table fields. Rows that have empty values in
       those fields can be saved successfully. System required fields are enforced and cannot be saved
       without a value.
       Studio
       Classic controls
       Enabling classic controls requires a refresh of Power Apps Studio.
       Fluent UI date picker control
       The Fluent UI date picker control doesn't yet support format string. If you need to support
       special formatting, you'll need to enable classic controls and use the classic Date Picker.
       Canvas components
       You may see red errors while using the modern controls in canvas components. These errors
       won't functionally impact your app, and you can ignore them.
      New connections
      Connections in the Power Apps Studio that require an authentication dialog fails in the Teams
      desktop client. Open the Studio in the Teams web client to add these connectors.
      Studio and visual editor synchronization
      Power Apps Studio doesn't reflect the changes to tables after:
       1. Renaming tables.
       2. Adding relationships within the inline visual editor.
      To see the new changes, refresh Power Apps Studio.
      Studio version
      It's currently not possible to change your Studio version.
      Visual editor
      Currency, Duration, Language, Ticker, and Timezone fields can't be added using visual editor.
      To create these fields, use the experience to work with tables as available using solution
      explorer.
     Load time limit
     Apps embedded in Teams are required to load within 30 seconds as per Teams requirements. If
     an app exceeds this 30 seconds limit, Teams assumes that the app has timed-out, and will
     display an error screen. If your app is encountering this 30 second timeout, review tips to
     improve performance for boosting your app’s performance.
     Theme
     Power Apps Studio and apps currently don't support Dark theme.
     Others
        If a user is an owner of the Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) group associated with a
        team but isn't also a member of that group, they may not be able to see that team in the
        Power Apps and Microsoft Copilot Studio apps.
        It may take up to 2 hours for deleting, renaming, or restoring a team to reflect correctly
        within the Power Apps and Microsoft Copilot Studio apps.
        It may take up to 15 minutes for new team users to be able to see the team within the
        Power Apps and Microsoft Copilot Studio apps.
        Users with the Teams Guest role con't trigger flows embedded in canvas apps.
              Migrate Microsoft Access data to
              Microsoft Dataverse for Teams (preview)
              Article • 02/15/2022
              [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
              Microsoft Access users can now choose to migrate their data into Dataverse or
              Dataverse for Teams to make use of Azure Cloud security and Power Platform
              functionality. Migrating Access data to Dataverse provides many new opportunities for
              interaction and management of data.
              Watch this short video about migrating Access data to Dataverse for Teams.
              https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=de255c2b-7a20-47a7-a7fe-
              f0cbdf19ee99&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fmigrate-access-
              to-dvft
              Next steps
                    Migrate Microsoft Access data to Microsoft Dataverse (preview)
                    Data types and sizes for Access data migration to Dataverse (preview)
                    System columns and tables in Dataverse and Dataverse for Teams (preview)
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
      Important upcoming changes
      (deprecations) in canvas apps
      The announcements for changes (deprecations) described in this article apply to canvas apps.
      Makers, developers, and IT professionals can use this information to prepare for future
      releases.
       ） Important
       "Deprecated" means we intend to remove the feature or capability from a future major
       release. The feature or capability will continue to work and is fully supported until it is
       officially removed. This deprecation notification can span a few months or years. After
       removal, the feature or capability no longer work. This notice is to allow you sufficient
       time to plan and update your code before the feature or capability is removed.
      Enhanced deep link creation requirement
      Starting May 1, 2026, for canvas apps, all deep links for Power Apps mobile must include the
      environment ID as a required parameter. Existing deep links without these parameters will stop
      working after the deprecation date. You also need to create new shortcuts. Update your links
      now to avoid disruptions. Old links have slower performance until support ends. Learn more in
      Use deep links with the Power Apps mobile app.
      Deprecated endpoints
      For information about deprecated endpoints, see Deprecated endpoints
      New addition for restrictive firewall rules to filter
      subdomains
      Effective February 14, 2022, if you’re using restrictive firewall rules to filter subdomains instead
      of *.powerapps.com, you’ll also need to allow access to *gateway.prod.island.powerapps.com for
      a continued Power Apps authoring and runtime experience. To see the complete list of the
      subdomains, go to Required services.
      Rules feature in canvas apps is deprecated
         Effective October 14, 2019, the rules feature in canvas apps in Power Apps is deprecated. Few
         people have made use of rules in their canvas apps. From feedback collected through research
         and discussions with makers of Power Apps, the rules feature was confusing, and expressions
         were easier to learn, use, and debug. For more information about the rules feature deprecation,
         see Blog: Canvas Rules feature deprecation   .
         Map component fields using dropdown option
         The capability to map component fields using dropdown option available through the
         Advanced tab for the selected component that's added to an app has been deprecated. To
         learn more about mapping component fields, alternatives, and this deprecation, go to Map
         input fields of a component.
         See also
         Important changes (deprecations) coming in Power Apps, Power Automate, and customer
         engagement apps
          Last updated on 01/09/2026
     Power Apps model-driven
     apps documentation
     Create powerful apps with easy to use tools that run across the spectrum of devices.
      Get started
        OVERVIEW
      ｅ
      What are model-driven apps?
      Reasons for building model-driven apps
      Meet the app editors
      Licensing guide
      Create
        QUICKSTART
      ｆ
      Create a simple app
      Steps to building a model-driven app
      Building a modern app
      App development
        CONCEPT
      ｐ
      Model-driven app components
      Data modelling
      Tables
      Forms
      Views
      Generative pages
      Relationships
      Advanced modeling
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Business rules
      Business process flows
      Embedding canvas apps
      Extend your app with generative pages
      Advanced app making and customization
      Apply data visualizations
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Reporting overview
      Create a system chart for a table
      Create or edit dashboards
      Build a data visualization page with generative pages
      Work with Power BI
      Distribute, share, and use
        DEPLOY
      ｀
      Use a model-driven app
      Share an app
      Distribute an app
      Use solutions for ALM
      Developer zone
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Developer guide
      Customize table forms using code
      Apply data visualizations using code
      Best practice
        HOW-TO GUIDE
      ｃ
      Planning a Power Apps project
      Designing productive forms
      Optimize forms for performance
      Resources
        DEPLOY
      ｀
      Glossary of terms
      Share an app
      Learn module
        CONCEPT
      ｐ
      Environments
      Solutions
      Dataverse
      What are model-driven apps in Power
      Apps?
      Model-driven apps overview
      Model-driven app design is an approach that focuses on adding components such as forms,
      views, charts, and dashboards to tables using an app designer tool. Additionally, relationships
      connect tables together in a way that permits navigation between them and ensures that data
      isn't repeated unnecessarily.
      Using the app designer with little or no code, you can build apps that are simple or complex.
                                                         
      Process driven apps
      Model-driven apps are especially well suited to process driven apps that are data dense and
      make it easy for users to move between related records. For example, if you're building an app
      to manage a complex process, such as onboarding new employees, managing a sales process,
      or member relationships in an organization such as a bank, a model-driven app is a great
      choice.
      Data modeling
      Although we call them model-driven apps, it's often easier to think of them as data model
      driven apps. This is because, without a data model housed within Microsoft Dataverse, you
     can't create a model-driven app.
     User experience
     From the user's perspective, all model-driven apps offer a similar experience, which is both
     accessible to many users and to the device used. The experience is similar to the diagram
     shown here.
     In this example, the app contains three tables (challenges, ideas, team projects), one
     dashboard, and multiple charts and views. Users navigate between the tables using the left
     pane or via the dashboard.
     Benefits of the model-driven approach
     Unlike canvas app development where the designer has complete control over app layout, with
     model-driven apps much of the user interface is determined for you and is largely designated
     by the components you add to the app.
     There are some notable advantages to this method of application development.
        Once the data model and relationships are created, the build process is relatively rapid
        due to rich component-focused no-code designers.
        Apps have a similar user interface across various devices from desktop to mobile.
        The apps are accessible and responsive automatically.
                 The user experience is consistent across all model-driven apps. Once a user is confident
                 with one model-driven app, later apps are easier to adopt within an organization.
                 Migrating apps between development, test, and production environments is relatively
                 straightforward by using solutions.
           Learn more about the benefits of the model-driven approach
           Model-driven and canvas apps compared
           In canvas apps, the app maker has total control over the app layout. With model-driven apps,
           much of the layout is determined by the components you add. The emphasis is more on
           quickly viewing your business data and making decisions instead of on intricate app design.
                                                                                                       ﾉ
                                                                                                           Expand table
            Category                  Model-driven apps                       Canvas apps
            Data platform             Dataverse only                          Dataverse + many others using
                                                                              connectors
            Design experience         No-code component focused               Manipulation of control properties using
                                      design                                  Power Fx expressions
            UI control                Limited, predominantly                  Full control
                                      customization
            App consistency           High – differs predominantly based      Often low, given the significant control
                                      on the tables and views chosen          the designers have of the user experience
            Migration between         Simple                                  Potentially complex given that the
            environments                                                      datasources might need to be updated
            Speed of creation         Rapid                                   Relative to the complexity of the design
            Responsive                Automatically responsive                Only responsive if designed in this way
            Navigation through        Automatic, provided relationships       Only where designed and applied using
            relationships             exist                                   Power Fx formulas
            Accessibility features    Built in                                Designed into the app: Create accessible
                                                                              canvas apps
           Steps to building and sharing a model-driven app
           At a fundamental level, model-driven app making consists of the following areas.
         Modeling business data
         Defining business processes
         Composing the app
         Configuring security roles
         Sharing your app
      A large part of the time spent building the app is dedicated to modeling the business data and
      in some case to defining the business processes. Customizing security roles depend on the
      needs of the organization.
      Learn more about the steps to building a model-driven app
      Using a model-driven app
      Documentation has been developed that helps users successfully navigate around and interact
      with model-driven apps in a way that helps make them more productive.
      Learn more about using model-driven apps
      You can use model-driven apps on a mobile device and run them in offline mode.
         Get started with Power Apps mobile
         Mobile offline overview (preview)
      Using solutions to assist with application lifecycle
      management
      Application lifecycle management (ALM) is the way in which we develop an app from
      conception to end of life.
      Solutions are used to act as wrappers for all the elements required to deliver a product for use
      within a business.
      As a minimum, a model-driven app requires a single table, a site map, plus the app itself.
      However, model-driven apps generally include a considerable amount more, and this includes
      canvas apps, security roles, environment variables, and much more.
                                                  
     Solutions offer the means by which these objects can be migrated between environments.
     Consequently, solutions are an important part of any application lifecycle management
     strategy.
     When you create a model-driven app, you should create it within a solution.
        Learn more about solutions
        Create a solution
     Minimum requirements for building a model-
     driven app
     Model-driven apps can be complex. However, the minimum requirements for building them
     are relatively straightforward.
        A Microsoft Power Apps license.
        Capacity to create a Power Platform environment. This is a feature of the Power Apps and
        Dynamics 365 licenses held.
        A Power Platform environment.
        A Dataverse database within the environment. This is selected when you create an
        environment. More information: Create an environment with a database
        Privileges for the maker to work as a system customizer or environment maker in the
        environment where the model-driven app is created. More information: About predefined
        security roles
        A table. (There are many standard tables, including account, which exist by default.)
        One table column. (Every table has at least one column, and many system columns.)
        One table view, to view records. (There are a number by default.)
        One table form, to enter data. (There will be one by default.)
      Using the app designer, a model-driven app is created by adding a page, which adds
      navigation to the app, and is typically based on a table or custom page.
      Next steps
      Learn about the value of model-driven apps
      Building a simple model-driven app is a great way to start. You might wish to Create a solution
      before you do so.
      To go deeper into creating model-driven apps, go to Steps to building a model-driven app.
      If you're new to Power Apps, and want to learn about how to convert your ideas into a fully
      working solution using Power Apps, start with Planning a Power Apps project.
      Understand model-driven app components helps you understand some of the elements that
      make up a model-driven app.
      Learn about licensing for the Power Platform
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
       The benefits of the model-driven
       approach
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Model-driven apps are familiar to anyone who has worked with Dynamics 365 apps. To
       others, they're a new business productivity tool.
       Dynamics 365 apps, such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365 Marketing, or Dynamics
       365 Customer Service, are essentially a set of line-of-business apps, built on Dataverse.
       The utility of the Dynamics 365 model was recognized as being powerful and by making
       Dataverse fully customizable, has enabled more bespoke solutions to be created.
       Model-driven apps are worth considering in your organization for the following reasons.
       Security
          The platform is reliable. It is the same as is used by Dynamics 365 apps, to cover
          complex business processes and govern millions of transactions in the biggest
          businesses in the world.
          Model-driven apps have tried and tested application lifecycle management
          options.
          Dataverse supports a strong and flexible data security model affecting the degree
          to which users can interact with table records and columns.
       Extendability
          Any Dataverse table component can be used and reused, such as contacts,
          accounts, or any custom tables created.
          Model-driven apps integrate with Office 365.
          Industry accelerators exist to enable a quicker entry into markets such as insurance
          or healthcare.
          Dataverse is extendable through use of Azure services, such as Azure Synapse Link
          for Dataverse.
          Canvas app integration possibilities are integral to the platform. More information:
          Design a custom page for your model-driven app (preview)
          Extensible with code to allow for a user experience that fits the organization more
          tightly.
          There is a pool of competence worldwide covering the platform through Dynamics
          consultants in addition to Power Platform practices.
       Usability for all
          Model-driven apps are responsive by design. This means they render better on a
          wide range of devices.
          Model driven apps are accessible to users with disabilities including those that
          require screen readers.
          Offline capabilities are native to model-driven apps.
          Multilingual label support to ensure that your apps can be used worldwide.
       Empowers citizen developers
          Minimal user interface maintenance as much of the experience is delivered via
          configuration versus outright coding.
          Predominantly a low code development platform.
       Business logic
          Logic can be introduced to ensure that columns contain the data that adheres to
          the business rules. More information: Create business rules and recommendations
          to apply logic in a model-driven app form
          Business process flows to guide users to update records in the correct order and in
          the correct way.
          Power Automate native integration exists and flows exist as separable solution
          components.
       Next steps
       Build your first model-driven app
         Release channels for your model-driven app
         Microsoft regularly provides new and updated features for your model-driven apps. You can
         control how often the users in your organization get these new features by specifying the release
         channel. The concept of multiple release channels originated from Microsoft 365 channels and
         provides Power Platform admins with a choice of how often end user impacting features are
         released.
         The twice-yearly release waves are delivered through the semi-annual channel, which is currently
         the default for all apps and environments. The monthly channel option enables generally
         available (GA) ready features to be turned on each month, with a one-week advance notification
         period so admins can validate new features against their customizations before they're enabled.
         Both channels deliver the same GA features - neither channel is a preview or early access
         program.
            ７ Note
            A release channel isn't the same as a release wave. A release wave (for example, 2025 wave
            1) is the six-month period used to plan, document, and deliver a set of features, published in
            the Dynamics 365 and Power Platform release plans. A release channel is the cadence that
            turns GA features on in your environment: the semi-annual channel enables features twice a
            year (early April and early October), aligned with the release waves, while the monthly
            channel enables those same GA features each month.
         This table provides a comparison of monthly channel and semi-annual channel.
                                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
          Category           Monthly channel                         Semi-annual channel
          Recommended        Provide your users with new end user    For users in your organization where more
          use                impacting features only once a month    training and extensive testing are needed before
                             and on a predictable schedule.          rollout out of new end user impacting features.
          Release            Once a month, on the first release for  Twice a year, starting early April and early
          frequency          the month and following the gradual     October and following the gradual weekly
                             weekly rollout.                         rollout.
     Security and non-end user impacting changes continue to be delivered with the weekly releases
     and changes outlined in Microsoft Unified Interface versions.
     The key idea is that GA-ready end user impacting features release monthly instead of waiting for
     the twice-yearly release cadence. The same number of features are delivered in 12 smaller
     releases instead of two larger releases.
     Microsoft 365 products experience consistently higher user satisfaction for monthly channel
     compared to the semi-annual channel. Currently, we observe a user satisfaction drop with the
     twice-yearly releases, and we're looking to improve this experience by following the Microsoft
     365 channel approach.
     How monthly and semi-annual channels relate
     The monthly channel is cumulative. It includes everything from the most recent semi-annual
     release, plus the generally available features that each month turns on.
     Most features appear in the monthly channel first and are later included in a semi-annual release,
     but the two channels aren't strictly sequential:
        A feature in the monthly channel might not be included in the next semi-annual release. For
        example, the feature might need more validation time or additional changes before it's
        turned on for semi-annual environments.
        Some changes go directly into a semi-annual release without first appearing in a monthly
        release.
     As a result, the monthly channel isn't a preview of everything in the next semi-annual release, and
     not every semi-annual feature was in a monthly release first.
     Configuring release channel
     Release channel can be configured on the environment, app, or user level. The release channel is
     primarily managed on the environment or app. The user level is an override, which can be used
     for gradual rollout or to revert specific users.
     Environment admins use the Power Platform admin center to select the channel for the
     environment. Makers use app designer or the solutions area to select the channel for one or
     more apps.
     To allow gradually switching the default from semi-annual channel to monthly channel, the
     default value for both environment release channel and app release channel were renamed to
         Auto. There's an explicit choice for Semi-annual and Monthly. More information: Changing
         release channels.
         With 2024 release wave 1, the Power Platform environments were changed to treat Auto app
         release channel as Monthly and newly created model-driven apps default to Monthly. With 2024
         release wave 2, the Dynamics 365 environments changed to treat Auto app release channel as
         Monthly. Admins and makers can select Semi-annual if they need the slower cadence. More
         information: Keeping semi-annual release channel.
         Monthly release schedule
         Model-driven apps release updates every week. Each update is gradually rolled out to regions
         over several weeks, starting with the first release region for early validation and then reaching
         production regions in groups on successive weekends. To see the list of regions, their rollout
         order, and the weekend each region group updates, see General availability deployment.
         The monthly release is the first weekly release of each month. The release typically matches
          YYMM.1, where YY is the release year and MM is the release month. Notifications of upcoming
         monthly and semi-annual channel changes are published in the release plans for Dynamics 365
         and Power Platform approximately one week before the release reaches the first production
         regions.
         Because each region group updates on the following weekend, the release reaches all regions
         over roughly five weeks. The exact calendar dates change each month, but the relative sequence
         stays the same:
                                                                                                       ﾉ
                                                                                                           Expand table
           Stage                                                    Approximate timing
           Release planner notification                             ~1 week before production rollout
           Early validation (first release region)                  First weekend
           Production rollout begins                                +1 weekend
           Remaining region groups                                  +2 to +4 weekends
         Semi-annual release schedule
         Through the semi-annual channel, the generally available features planned in each Dynamics 365
         and Power Platform release wave are turned on twice a year, in early April and early October:
                                                     ﾉ Expand table
      Release wave  Rollout begins  Production build
      Wave 1        Early April     YY03.3 (for example, 2603.3)
      Wave 2        Early October   YY09.3 (for example, 2609.3)
     Like the monthly channel, each semi-annual release follows the gradual weekly rollout across the
     same region groups, starting with the first release region and reaching each subsequent region
     group on the following weekend. The features included in a wave are planned and documented
     in the Dynamics 365 and Power Platform release plans.
     When features become available
     For both the monthly and semi-annual channels, an environment gets new features when it
     receives the weekly build that contains those features. Builds are named YYMM.W, where YY is the
     year, MM is the month, and W is the weekly release within that month (for example, 2603.3).
     Because builds roll out to the region groups over successive weekends, the date an environment
     receives a given build depends on its region group.
     To see the current build for a model-driven app, open the Settings menu and select About. For
     more information, see User about dialog.
     See also
     Changing release channels
     User about dialog - channel
     Power Platform admin center - Environment behavior settings
     Power Platform admin center - User settings
      Last updated on 07/13/2026
     Change release channels for model-driven
     apps
     The release channel affects the features that impact users. When the monthly channel is
     enabled for an environment, makers need to validate that their customizations work with each
     monthly release. This article describes different approaches for a maker to change channels
     and validate an upcoming release.
     Flexible channel configuration
     The release channel for model-driven apps can be changed in two primary ways.
        App channel
        Environment channel
     In addition, the release channel can be overridden with either of these options.
        User channel override
        Browser session channel override
       ７ Note
       When you change the release channel at the environment level, a user must refresh the
       browser tab twice to update the release channel information. The first refresh triggers a
       background update of feature configuration to a local cache. The second refresh uses the
       feature configuration local cache.
     Ordering of channel release usage
     The order of checks to determine which setting controls the channel is:
       1. URL override.
       2. User channel override.
       3. App release channel value other than Auto (for example, Monthly, Semi-annual).
       4. Environment release channel value other than Auto (for example, Monthly, Semi-annual).
       5. App release channel and environment release channel are both Auto.
        a. With 2024 release wave 1, Power Apps environments use monthly channel.
        b. Starting with 2024 release wave 2, Dynamics 365 environments use monthly channel.
     Dynamics 365 app release channel settings
    With 2024 release wave 1, the following Dynamics 365 apps changed their app release channel
    to Monthly:
       Customer Service workspace
       Customer Service Hub
       Customer Service admin center
       Field Service
       Field Resource Hub
       Field Service Mobile
       Resource Scheduling
       Resource Scheduling Optimization
       Customer Insights - Journeys
       Business performance analytics
       Project Operations Team Member
       Power Platform environment settings
    With 2024 release wave 2, this app is changing the app release channel to Monthly:
       Sales Hub
    Keep semi-annual release channel
    When an environment needs to have a slower release cadence, these configurations are
    recommended.
    Change apps with explicit app release channel
    Model-driven apps with the app release channel set to a value other than Auto need to be
    changed to Semi-annual. These apps can be deployed to all environments as a managed
    solution.
      1. Customize any out of box Dynamics 365 app.
      2. Update any custom app created after 2024 release wave 1 when the new app started
       defaulting to Monthly.
    The preferred approach is to follow Change app channel in app designer and then deploy the
    app's solution to all environments.
     ７ Note
     Model-driven apps in Power Platform environments use Monthly when the app release
     channel is Auto regardless of the environment release channel. All model-driven apps in
            Power Platform environments need to set the app release channel explicitly.
         Override apps when no explicit app release channel
         Model-driven apps in a Dynamics 365 environment that have Auto for app release channel can
         choose either option:
               Change each environment release change to Semi-annual.
               Change each app to Semi-annual.
         Changing the environment channel
         The environment channel can be set using the Power Platform admin center or with code.
                                                                                        ﾉ
                                                                                           Expand table
           Environment release  Environment          Behavior
           channel              setting value
           Auto                 0                    Environment default value is currently Semi-annual, but
                                                     changes to Monthly with 2024 release wave 2.
           Monthly              1                    Environment explicitly set to Monthly Channel.
           Semi-annual          3                    Environment explicitly set to Semi-Annual Channel.
         Power Platform admins can change the release channel using the environment's behavior
         settings. More information: Manage behavior settings.
         Developers can change the environment channel by updating the ReleaseChannel column
         value for the row in the Organization table. There's always a single row in the organization
         table. More information:
               Update a record using Web API
               Update a record using the SDK for .NET
         Changing the app channel
         Use the app channel to override the release channel for a model-driven app by using Power
         Apps app designer or the Solutions area.
                                                                                        ﾉ Expand table
           App release   App          Behavior
           channel       setting
                         value
           Auto          0            App default value is Semi-annual for Dynamics 365 environments and
                                      Monthly for Power Apps environments. With 2024 release wave 2, the
                                      default changes to Monthly.
           Monthly       1            App explicitly set to Monthly Channel.
           Semi-annual   3            App explicitly set to Semi-Annual Channel.
            ７ Note
            App release value 2 is used for internal testing and receives updates faster than monthly
            channel so isn't supported for production usage.
         Change app channel in app designer
         A maker can use the app designer to explicitly set the release channel for an app, which
         overrides the environment channel.
            1. Open https://make.powerapps.com/       .
            2. Under Solutions open an existing solution containing a model-driven app.
            3. Open the app in the app designer.
            4. Open Settings dialog.
            5. Under the General tab, expand Advanced settings.
            6. Use App release channel to change the app release value. More information: Changing
               the app channel
           7. Save and publish the app.
        Change app channel in the solutions area
        As an alternative, a maker can use the Solutions area to explicitly set the release channel for all
        apps within the environment.
           1. Open https://make.powerapps.com/   .
      2. Under Solutions open an existing solution with one or more model-driven apps:
      3. Add the existing app setting Allow new app channel default into the solution:
       a. Select Add existing > More > Setting.
       b. Search for app channel.
       c. Select the item App channel.
       d. Select Add.
      4. To change the app channel for all apps in the environment:
       a. Edit the setting App channel.
       b. Find the section Setting environment values.
       c. Select New environment value and then enter the integer for the channel.
       d. Select Save which publishes the Setting Definition.
     ７ Note
     When the setting definition is used to change one or more apps as part of a single
     solution, you must republish the apps for the change to take effect. Also, making this
     change causes the apps to have dependencies on the solution with the customization.
    Set the default for new apps to monthly channel
    As part of the gradual migration to default all apps to use monthly channel, newly created
    model-driven apps gradually start seeing the app channel defaulted. Admins or makers can
    control the release channel default for new apps using an app setting. The app setting Allow
    new app channel default defaults to Yes, which means a newly created app is set to Monthly.
    To override this behavior, change the app setting to No in the environment or apply to
    multiple environments by including in a solution that is imported into the environments.
    Prevent new app default to monthly channel
    The new app default can be prevented by switching Allow new app channel default to No.
    This change causes the new app to be created with release channel Auto value.
    The following steps change the default for all new apps within an environment. This app
    setting override can also be put into a solution and imported into environments to prevent
    new apps from having a default set.
      1. Go to Solutions and open an existing or create a new solution.
      2. Add the existing app setting Allow new app channel default into the solution:
       a. Select Add existing > More > Setting.
       b. Search for app channel default.
         c. Select the item Allow new app channel default.
         d. Select Add.
       3. Edit the setting Allow new app channel default:
         a. Select Allow new app channel default.
         b. Select New environment value.
         c. Change the environment value to No.
         d. Select Save.
      Changing the user channel
      The user channel can be used to override both the environment channel and the app channel
      using the Power Platform admin center or with code.
      Power Platform admins can change the release channel using the settings in the environment's
      user list. More information: Manage user channel override.
      Developers can change the user release channel by updating the ReleaseChannel column value
      for the row in the UserSettings table. The user channel can be programmatically updated with
      the same approach as the environment channel.
      Changing the browser session channel
      A single browser session can be changed by adding the URL parameter &channel=
      <channelname> as a temporary override. This URL parameter is used for all navigation within the
      browser tab. It might not be copied to a new browser tab.
                                                    ﾉ Expand table
      Channel                URL parameter
      Semi-annual            &channel=semiannual
      Monthly                &channel=monthly
      When the channel is monthly, the monthly release can be changed using the URL parameter
      &channelrelease=<releasename>. The release name format is the two digit year and two digit
      month, like YYMM. Additionally the next monthly release can be set using
      &channelrelease=next.
                                                    ﾉ
                                                      Expand table
        Monthly Release              Release Name Parameter
        October 2023                  &channelrelease=2310
        November 2023                 &channelrelease=2311
        December 2023                 &channelrelease=2312
        January 2024                  &channelrelease=2401
         ７ Note
         Any valid YYMM release can be entered but future dates might not have any features
         defined.
       Validating the next monthly release
       Validation should be done for each monthly channel release before it is automatically enabled
       for users. Users can test when the validation build version reaches the environment.
       The easiest way to validate is by appending &channelrelease=next that automatically sets the
       release channel to the next upcoming monthly release.
         1. Find the current monthly release for a model-driven app by selecting Settings > About.
           The release version follows Channel: Monthly and is a date like July 2023.
         2. Append &channelrelease=next to the URL.
         3. Repeat the first step to observe an updated release version.
       To validate against a specific monthly release, use the following steps:
         1. Find the current monthly release for a model-driven app by selecting Settings > About.
           The release version follows Channel: Monthly and is a date like July 2023.
         2. Find the monthly release short name by opening Unified Interface monthly channel
           releases.
         3. A specific release can be set with the URL parameter ```&channelrelease=`` with the next
           release short name like 2308.
       Comparing features across channels and releases
      When a user running the monthly channel observes unexpected behavior, the following steps
      can help investigate where the behavior occurred.
         Check if the unexpected behavior exists in the semi-annual channel by using the URL
         parameter &channel=semiannual. If the behavior also exists in the semi-annual channel, it's
         unrelated to the monthly channel and should follow normal support processes.
         Check if the unexpected behavior exists in the previous monthly release by using the URL
         parameter &channelrelease= with the prior release short name like 2308. If the two
         monthly releases behave the same, then it's likely unrelated to a specific monthly channel
         release and should follow normal support processes.
         When a change is noticed between monthly releases, review the changed features in
         Unified Interface monthly channel releases to learn more.
      See also
      Release channel overview
      User About dialog - channel
      Power Platform admin center - Manage behavior settings
      Power Platform admin center - Manage user channel override.
      Last updated on 03/30/2026
        Meet the model-driven app designers
        Article • 02/15/2022
        In order to fully develop a model-driven app, multiple designers are required at different
        stages in the development process.
        Broadly speaking, app development breaks down into the following stages:
            Data model development
            App development
            Data security
        Assets created, such as tables, cloud flows, or model-driven apps, have the capacity to
        be held inside solutions to enable secure application lifecycle management.
        This article focuses on the first two stages. For more information about data security, go
        to Security in Microsoft Dataverse
          ７ Note
          It isn't necessary to use all the editors to create a model-driven app. As a minimum,
          concentrate on the table column editor, form designer, and view designer in
          addition to adding any required relationships. Then use the app designer to pull
          the components of the app together.
        Data-model development
        The value of model-driven apps centers around having a strong, secure, reusable data-
        model. Once the data-model is in place, the process of developing the app is
        straightforward.
        The table designer, and related designers
        Development of the data-model starts with using the table designer. A table is a
        significant artifact of a model-driven app. There is a table designer, which defines the
        table structure, and includes access to the other designers for relationships, views,
        forms, and so on.
               The table designer is shown below.
               The following table describes the designers, what they do, and provides links about how
               to open them.
                Editor           Description                                                              Link
                Table            Tables hold record metadata in columns for a wide range of data          Create a
                designer         types such as text, email, image, currency, and more. Many               custom
                                 standard tables are available. You can customize a non-system            table
                                 standard table. You can also create a new custom table from
                                 scratch. 
                                 The table designer is effectively an entry point to the other
                                 designers, such as view and form. In many cases, the designers are
                                 native to the table designer and in others a new browser tab opens
                                 where editing can take place. 
                                 The columns area of the table designer allows the developer to
                                 define the table columns.
                Relationships    Part of the table designer. Relationships are fundamental to the         Create a
                                 operation of any model-driven app. Without them all tables are           relationship
                                 isolated.
                Business rule    A separate designer accessed via the table designer. Business rules      Create a
                designer         apply rules or recommendation logic to a form to set column              business
                                 requirements, hide columns, validate data, and more. App                 rule for a
                                 designers use a simple interface to implement and maintain fast-         table
                                 changing and commonly used rules.
                View             Part of the table designer. Views are tied to the table and present      Create a
                designer         table data in columns by selecting, positioning, and filtering them.     view
                Form             A separate designer accessed via the table designer. Forms allow         Create a
                designer         users to interact with data held in table records.                       form
                Dashboard        A separate designer accessed via the table designer. Used to create      Create a
                designer         and edit dashboards presenting different data visualizations, such       dashboard
                                 as embedded Power BI reports, data charts, and views.
                Chart            A separate designer used to create table charts.                         Create a
                designer                                                                                  system
                                                                                                          chart
                Editor           Description                                                            Link
                Business         Business process flows walk users through a standard business          Create a
                process flow     process.                                                               business
                designer         While they are a part of the solution, they are created using Power    process
                                 Automate.                                                              flow
               Business logic development
               Business logic can be introduced in the form of business rules and business process
               flows.
               In addition, Power Automate cloud flows can be used in a model-driven app that
               leverage cloud flow functionality, which can access hundreds of data connectors, not
               just Dataverse.
               Learn more about using Power Automate with Dataverse
               App designer
               The app designer is the tool that is used to create the app and to configure the tables
               used in the app. It is important to understand that the quality of the app has much less
               to do with the edits performed at this stage than those using the other designers.
               Makers can choose the views, forms, charts, and dashboards relevant to the app in
               development.
               Create an app using the app designer
               Next steps
               Steps to building a model-driven app
               Build your first model-driven app
          Steps to building a model-driven app
          This article describes the steps for building a model-driven app in Power Apps.
          At a fundamental level, model-driven app making consists of the following stages.
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
           Stage                     Purpose
           Modeling business data    To ensure that the data is constructed in the correct way to address the
                                     business problem.
           Defining business         To help users update the relevant tables and complete their work efficiently
           processes                 and accurately.
           Composing the app         To create the app and select tables, and elements of tables, that are relevant
                                     to the app.
           Configuring security      To ensure that app users can only interact with data relevant to their roles.
           roles
           Sharing the app           App distribution.
          Each stage requires a range of designers and editors to ensure that the application can be
          created, whether the app maker is updating the data model or going through the process of
          composing the app.
          While it might seem strange to have multiple designers or editors, these tools reflect the
          various technologies that have been brought to bear within Microsoft Dataverse. Often makers
          move seamlessly through the editors to construct the app.
          For a simple walk-through of building a first app, go to building a first model-driven app.
          Modeling business data
          To model business data, you determine what data your app needs and how that data relates to
          other data. Model-driven design uses a metadata-driven architecture so that designers can
          customize the application without writing code. Metadata means “data about data” and it
          defines the structure of the data stored in the system.
            ７ Note
      With the exception of model-driven apps that have a custom page, model-driven apps
      can't be created without Dataverse tables. However, Dataverse tables can be used by
      many Power Platform services, including canvas apps and Power Automate.
     Tutorial: Create a custom table that has components in Power Apps
     Defining business processes
     Defining and enforcing consistent business processes is an important aspect of model-driven
     app design. However, you can create a model-driven app without a business process
     configured around it.
     Consistent processes help ensure your app users focus on their work and not on remembering
     to perform a set of manual steps. These processes can be simple or complex and can contain
     operations on multiple tables.
     The screenshot here illustrates the impact of having a business process flow in place.
                                                    
     Business process flows are created and configured using the business process flow designer.
     More information: Business process flows overview and Apply business logic with Microsoft
     Dataverse.
     Composing the model-driven app
     After you create a data model and define business processes where necessary, you can build
     the app.
     This is done by building an app using the modern designers and editors.
     With the modern designers and editors, makers can see the effects of the changes that they
     make while designing, whereas with the legacy interfaces there was a level of abstraction
     between the final user experience and the design experience. More information: Learn how to
     build a modern app
     When you build an app, a site map is created, defining the navigation experience for users.
     With the modern app designer, this is a part of the app design process.
     More information: Building a site map
     Playing the app
     Play your app through the app designer.
     Once these stages are complete, you can move onto the final phases associated with
     distributing your app.
     Configuring security roles
     Access to tables is defined using security roles and these roles govern the actions that users
     can perform with the tables within Dataverse. Without this, users have no meaningful access to
     the app.
     These actions cover Create, Read, Write, Delete, Append, Append To, Assign, and Share.
     Security roles need to be first configured and then users are assigned to roles at the point of
     sharing.
     For more information on understanding, creating and configuring security roles go to:
        Power Platform documentation
        Get started with security roles in Dataverse
     Sharing the app
     To share an app, two actions are required:
        Assign the user a security role. This means that they have permission to see the data.
              Share a link to the app. To get the link:
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   , and then select Apps on the left navigation pane.
            2. Select the model-driven app you want, and then select Details on the command bar.
            3. Copy the Web link. Alternatively, you can make a copy of the Mobile QR code for mobile
              users.
            4. Paste the app URL in a location so that your users can access it, such as by posting it on a
              SharePoint site or send via email.
         Sharing an app and security roles are intrinsically linked. To properly share an app, you need to
         have a strong understanding of both. Discover more about sharing apps and establishing
         security
         Using a model-driven app
         Documentation is available that helps users of model-driven apps successfully navigate around
         and interact in ways that help make them more productive. Learn more about using model-
         driven apps
         Next steps
         Build your first modern app
         Meet the model-driven app designers
      Last updated on 04/08/2026
         Build your first model-driven app
         In this tutorial, you create a model-driven app by using one of the standard tables that is
         available in Microsoft Dataverse, the account table.
                                                                                                  
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   . If you don't already have a Power Apps account, select the Get
              started free link.
            2. Select an environment. An environment in Power Apps is a space to store, manage, and
              share your organization’s business data, apps, chatbots, and flows. It also serves as a
              container to separate apps that might have different roles, security requirements, or
              target audiences.
              Each environment can have one Dataverse database.
              Select the environment you want. If your tenant allows you to create your own
              environment, select the current environment from the top right, and then select Try it
              now. More information: Get your developer environment (preview)
            3. We recommend creating your model-driven app from a solution. A solution is a package
              that can contain Dataverse tables, forms, views, apps, flows, and other components. By
              building your model driven-app in a solution, you can easily move it to other
              environments or preserve a copy in your source control repository.
              Select Solutions on the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select
              …More and then select the item you want.
      4. Select New solution, enter a Display name for your solution, such as Power Apps Training,
        select a publisher (the CDS Default Publisher is okay for this tutorial), and then select
        Create. For more information about creating a solution, go to Create a solution.
      5. In your solution, select Add existing, and then select Table.
      6. In the Add existing tables list, select the Account table, and then select Next.
      7. Since this is a standard table, leave the default setting for account table objects and
        metadata and select Add.
        Now that you have a solution and have added the account table to it, you're ready to
        create a model-driven app.
      8. In your solution, select New, select App, and then select Model-driven app.
      9. Enter a name for the app, such as My new custom app, and then select Create.
        Your app loads in the model-driven app designer.
     Add a page to your app
     Next, you add a new page to the model-driven app in the app designer.
      1. Select Add page on the command bar, and then select Dataverse table.
      2. Select Account, and then select Add.
     Your app with the account table is displayed similarly to how it appears to users at run time
     when published. If your environment has sample data, the sample list of active accounts might
     appear in the All Accounts view.
     Save and publish your app
     Save your app so that your app and changes aren't lost. To make it available to users, publish it.
     To save without publishing, on the app designer command bar, select Save.
     To save and publish, on the app designer command bar, select Publish.
     Create an app description with Copilot
     If your app is in a managed environment, you can use AI to help you create a description for
     your app.
      ） Important
         To use this capability your app must be in a managed environment.
         This capability is powered by Azure OpenAI Service.
         This capability might be subject to usage limits or capacity throttling.
         To understand capabilities and limitations of AI-powered and Copilot features in
         Power Apps, go to Responsible AI FAQs for Power Apps
     When you save and publish your app, on the Publish dialog box select, Create descriptions
     using AI to replace your current description or, if your app doesn't have a description, Copilot
     generates one for you.
     You can also generate an app description by going to, Settings > General. Under Description
     select, Create descriptions using AI.
     For information that describes the AI impact of Power Apps generate app descriptions with
     Copilot feature, go to FAQ for generate app descriptions with Copilot.
     Enable or disable AI-generated app descriptions
     App AI-generated descriptions are managed by a setting in the Power Platform admin center.
       1. Open https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/environments
       2. Select an environment, and then select Edit managed environments.
       3. Under the section titled Enable AI-generated app descriptions, select or clear AI-
        generated app descriptions
       4. Select Save.
     Clear the browser cache and close any active Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) browser
     windows. The feature is now be enabled or disabled.
     Run your app on a desktop computer
            1. To run your app, sign in to Power Apps   , and on the left navigation pane, select Apps.
            2. Select the app from the app list. The app opens in your browser. If you want to show the
               chart, use the button Show Chart.
         Run your app on mobile
      To run your app on your mobile device, follow these steps:
       1. Download the app from your device's mobile app store:
            IOS:  Power Apps on the App Store (apple.com)
            Android: Power Apps - Apps on Google Play
       2. Open the app, tap Sign in, and then enter your Microsoft work or school account.
       3. Select your app from the list to run it.
      Next steps
      Add additional pages and configurations to make your app do more!
         Add a custom page where a canvas app runs from your model-driven app. More
         information: Overview of custom pages for model-driven apps
         Create Dataverse custom tables that you can add to your app the same way as you added
         the account table in this tutorial. More information: Create and edit tables using Power
         Apps
         Identify the URL of your model-driven app. More information: Run a model-driven app in
         a browser
         Share your app. More information Share a model-driven app.
         Learn more about building model-driven apps. More information: Understand model-
         driven app components
        Tip
       Ready to convert your ideas into an app? Start here: Planning a Power Apps project.
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
               Understand model-driven app
               components
               Article • 01/22/2025
               A well designed model-driven app consists of several components you select using the
               app designer to build the appearance and functionality of the finished app. The
               components and component properties that makers use to create an app become the
               metadata.
               To understand how each of these components relates to app design, they're separated
               here into data, UI, logic, and visualization categories.
               Data components
               These components determine what data the app is based upon and what designer is
               used to create or edit the component.
               Data components are either designed at a table level within an environment, or within a
               solution contained within the environment.
                                                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
                Component       Description                                                              Designer
                Table           A container for records with properties that you track, such as a        Power Apps
                                contact or account. Many standard tables are available. You can          table
                                customize a nonsystem standard table (production table) or create        designer
                                a custom table from scratch.
                Relationship    Table relationships define how tables can be related to each other.      Power Apps
                                There are 1:N (one-to-many), N:1 (many-to-one), and N:N (many-           table
                                to-many) types of relationships. For example, adding a lookup            designer
                                column to a table creates a new 1:N relationship between the two
                                tables and lets you put that lookup column on a form.
                Column          A property that is associated with a table. A column is defined by a     Power Apps
                                data type, which determines the type of data that can be entered or      table
                                selected. Examples include text, number, date and time, currency, or     designer
                                lookup (creates a relationship with another table). Columns typically
                                are used with forms, views, and searches.
                Choice          This is a special type of column, which provides the user a set of       Power Apps
                column          predetermined options. Each option has a number value and label.         choice
                                When added to a form, this column displays a control for the user        designer
                Component       Description                                                              Designer
                                to select an option. There are two kinds of choices; choices, where
                                the user can only select one option, and multi-select choices, which
                                allow more than one selection.
               More information: Define data for your model-driven app
               UI components
               These components determine how users interact with the app.
                                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
                Component         Description                                                           Designer
                App               Determines the application fundamentals such as components,           App designer
                                  properties, client type, and URL for your app.
                Site map          Specifies the navigation for your app.                                App designer
                Form              A set of data-entry columns for a given table that matches the        Form
                                  items that your organization tracks for the table. For example, a     designer
                                  set of data-entry columns where users input relevant
                                  information to track a customer's previous orders along with
                                  specific requested reorder dates.
                View              Views define how a list of rows for a specific table is displayed in  View
                                  your application. A view defines the columns to display, width of     designer or
                                  each column, sort behavior, and the default filters.                  app designer
                Custom page       A canvas based page which allows flexible layout, low-code            Canvas
                (preview)         Power Fx functions, and Power Apps connector data. For more           designer
                                  information, go to Model-driven app custom page overview
                                  (preview)
               Logic components
               Determines the business processes, rules, and automation the app has. Power Apps
               makers use a designer that is specific to the type of process or rule.
                                                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
                Type of        Description                                                            Designer
                logic
                Business       An online process that walks users through a standard business         Business
                process        process. For example, use a business process flow if you want          process flow
                flow           everyone to handle customer service requests the same way, or to       designer
                               require staff to gain approval for an invoice before submitting an
                               order.
                Workflow       Workflows automate business processes without a user interface.        Workflow
                               Designers use workflows to initiate automation that doesn't            designer
                               require any user interaction.
                Actions        Actions are a type of process that let you manually invoke actions,    Process
                               including custom actions, directly from a workflow.                    designer
                Business       Used to apply rule or recommendation logic to a form, such as to       Business rule
                rule           set column requirements, hide columns, or validate data. App           designer
                               designers use a simple interface to implement and maintain fast-
                               changing and commonly used rules.
                Power          Power Automate is a cloud-based service that lets you create           Power
                Automate       automated flows between apps and services to get notifications,        Automate
                Flow           synchronize files, collect data, and more.
               More information: Apply business logic in your model-driven app
               Additional options for adding custom business logic
               Use plug-ins to extend business processes
               Workflow extensions
               Visualizations
               Determines what type of data visualizations and reporting the app has available.
                                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
                Component         Description                                          Designer
                Chart             A single graphic visualization that can be           Chart designer
                                  displayed within a view, on a form, or be added
                                  to a dashboard.
                Dashboard         Functions as a palate for one or more graphic        Dashboard designer
                                  visualizations that provide an overview of
                                  actionable business data.
                Component        Description                                          Designer
                Embedded         Add embedded Power BI tiles and dashboards to        Combination of chart
                Power BI         your app. Power BI is a cloud-based service that     designer, dashboard
                                 provides business intelligence insight.              designer, and Power BI
              Advanced model-driven app making
              The solution explorer is a comprehensive tool used for advanced model-driven app
              building. Within the solution explorer, you can navigate through a hierarchy that
              consists of all app components using the navigation pane on the left side of the tool.
              To open solution explorer:
                 1. On the Power Apps Home page, select Settings, and then select Advanced
                    Settings.
                 2. On the Dynamics 365 Business Management page, select Settings, select
                    Customizations, and then select Customize the System.
              More information: Advanced app making and customization
              Next steps
              Data model development overview
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
      Define data for your model-driven app
      ﾃ Summarize this article for me
      Model-driven apps behave according to the nature of the data model that underpins them.
      App users observe and interact through views of data housed within tables and the forms used
      to enter data into records based on those tables.
      In addition to editing table views and forms, charts and dashboards are also defined at the
      level of the table.
      Finally, business rules ensure consistent business logic is applied to table records.
      While it is possible to create a table without a business rule, chart, or dashboard, it isn't
      possible to design a meaningful table without a view or a form.
      Finally, while business process flows are highly relevant to tables and the app user experience,
      they aren't authored at the level of the table. Business process flows can be created and
      managed in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com).
      The process of designing an app using the app designer in most instances comes after the data
      model is prepared. However, an iterative approach is possible using the platform.
      How to define a data model
      The data model for a model-driven app is defined in Microsoft Dataverse. Power Apps model-
      driven apps can only be defined using Dataverse.
      The apps data-model is defined using the components: table, column, and relationship. Once
      these are created, then the forms and views can be developed further to meet the needs of the
      organization.
      For detailed information about working with these components in Dataverse to define data for
      your model-driven app, go to the following articles:
                                                   ﾉ Expand table
      Component      Article             Note
      Table          Work with tables
      Column         Work with columns
      Relationships  Work with relationships
            Component                   Article                               Note
            Business rule               Create a business rule
            Chart                       Create a chart
            Dashboard                   Build a dashboard
            Business process flow       Create a business process flow        Uses Power Automate designer
          Next steps
          Learn about common column properties
          Learn about configuring tables
          Learn about creating and designing forms
          Discover out more about views here
          Build your first app
           Last updated on 02/13/2026
       Model-driven app common column
       properties
           Summarize this article for me
       ﾃ
       Common properties of table columns for a model-driven app can be viewed using Power Apps
       (make.powerapps.com). Power Apps provides an easy way to create and edit table columns
       with Microsoft Dataverse.
       In addition to configuring aspects of the Dataverse column, such as its type and whether or not
       it's required, it's possible to configure aspects of how the column is used in the context of a
       form. This approach allows for different forms to permit users to have different interactions
       with the data column.
       Common column properties in Power Apps
         1. From Power Apps make.powerapps.com , select Tables, and then select the table that
           has the columns you want to view. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More
           and then select the item you want.
             ７ Note
             Customizations to a table take should place within a solution. To update a table
             within a solution, open your solution, open the table, and then select the Columns
             area.
         2. Select the column that you want to view.
         The following table describes the common properties of columns. Certain types of columns
         have special properties. These are described in Create and edit columns for Dataverse.
                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
          Property      Description
          Display       The text to display for the column in the user interface.
          Name
          Name          The unique name across your environment. Power Apps generates a name based on the
                        display name that you enter. However, you can edit this name before saving. Once you
                        create a column, you can't change the name as your applications or code might reference
                        it. The Dataverse Default Publisher customization prefix is prepended to the name.
          Data type     Controls how values are stored and how they're formatted in some applications. Once
                        you save a column, you can't change the data type except for converting text columns to
          Property      Description
                        autonumber columns.
          Required      A row can't be saved without data in this column.
          Searchable    This column appears in Advanced Find and is available when customizing views.
          Calculated    Use to automate manual calculations. Use values, dates, or text.
          or Rollup
          Advanced      Add a description, and specify a maximum length and IME mode for the column.
          Options
         There are many different types of columns, but you can only create some of them. For more
         information about all types of columns, see Types of columns and column data types.
         Common column properties in solution explorer
         (classic)
         In addition to using Power Apps (make.powerapps.com), you can also review columns by using
         the solution explorer.
         Open an unmanaged solution
            1. From Power Apps     select Solutions from the left navigation pane, and then on the
              toolbar, select Switch to classic. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and
              then select the item you want.
            2. In the All Solutions list open the unmanaged solution you want.
         Navigate to a column for a table using the solution explorer
         To update the column, follow these steps.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Tables. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
              More and then select the item you want.
                 ７ Note
        Customizations to a table should take place within a solution. To update a column
        within a solution, open your Solution, and then open the Table.
      3. Select a table, such as the account table.
      4. Select ... on the command bar, and then select Switch to classic.
        ７ Note
        In the solution explorer, tables are known as entities and columns are known as
        fields.
      5. Select the column that you want.
      6. Select Change properties from the command bar, or double-click the column.
             7. Make the necessary property changes (see the classic editor field properties options), and
                then select OK.
             8. Save and Publish the form.
          Field properties within the classic editor
          There are six tabs shown for a field. Display, Formatting, Details, Events, Business Rules and
          Components.
          The following table describes properties that all columns have. Certain types of columns have
          special properties. These are described in Special column properties.
                                                                                              ﾉ
                                                                                                  Expand table
           Tab           Property            Description
           Display       Label               Required: By default the label will match the display name of the
                                             column. The name for the form can be overridden by entering a
                                             different label here.
                         Display label on    This contains the option not to display the label at all.
                         the form
                         Field Behavior      Specify the column level behavior using the check boxes.
                         Locking             This will prevent the column from being removed from the form
                                             accidentally. This will prevent any configuration applied to the
                                             column, such as event handlers, from being cleared if the column
                                             were removed. To remove this column, a customizer would need to
                                             clear this setting first.
                         Visibility          Showing the column is optional and can be controlled using scripts.
                                             More information: Visibility options
                         Availability        Choose if you want the field to be available on the phone.
           Formatting    Select the number   When the section containing the columns has more than one column
                         of fields the       this can set the column to occupy up to the number of columns that
                         control occupies    the section has.
           Details       Display Name,       These read-only columns are for reference. Select Edit for access to
                         Name, and           the column definition if you want to edit it.
                         Description
                                             Each instance of a column in the form has a name property so that
                                             they can be referenced in form scripts, but this name is managed by
                                             the application. The first instance of the column is the name of the
                                             column specified when it was created. More information: Create and
           Tab           Property             Description
                                              edit columns
                                              For each additional time that a column is included in a form, the
                                              name appends a number starting with 1 to the end. So if the column
                                              name is 'new_cost', the first instance is 'new_cost', the second is
                                              'new_cost1', and so on, for each instance of the column in the form.
                                              Note: The column Description value provides tooltip text for the
                                              column when people place their cursor over it.
           Events        Form Libraries       Specify any JavaScript web resources that will be used in the column
                                              OnChange event handler.
                         Event Handlers       Configure the functions from the form libraries that should be called
                                              for the column OnChange event. More information: Configure Event
                                              Handlers
           Business      Business Rules       View and manage any business rules that reference this column.
           Rules                              More information: Create business rules and recommendations
           Controls      Controls             Add controls and specify their availability on Web, Phone, and Tablet.
          Editing form level column properties
          In some scenarios, it is desirable to render a data column within a form field in one form in a
          way that differs in the way it is presented in another. This allows the user experience to be
          tailored to the individual using the form.
             1. Sign in to Power Apps     .
             2. On the left navigation pane, select Tables. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
                More and then select the item you want.
                   ７ Note
                   Customizations to a table should take place within a solution. To update a form
                   within a solution, first navigate to your Solution, open the Table, and then select the
                   Forms area.
             3. Select a table, such as the account table, and then select the Forms area.
             4. Select the form where customizations are required.
       5. Select Switch to classic. The form opens in the classic experience.
       6. Select the form field where an updated experience is required.
       7. Select Change properties from the command bar or double-click the field.
       8. Make the necessary changes, and then select OK.
       9. Save and Publish the form.
      Next steps
      Overview of special column properties
      Last updated on 03/04/2026
       Overview of model-driven app special
       column properties
           Summarize this article for me
       ﾃ
       All columns have the properties listed in Common column properties, but certain columns have
       additional properties, such as this entitlement column that can be opened from the main form
       for the case table.
         ７ Note
         This article describes properties for the classic experience. For information about lookup
         column properties in the modern for designer, go to Configure a lookup component on a
         form.
       Lookup column properties
         ７ Note
         The options described in the table below are available only for single-table lookup
         columns.
                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
        Section    Property   Description
        Related    Only show  When this is enabled, the records that display when users search for a
        Records    records    record will have additional filtering applied. This helps provide more
        Filtering  where      relevant searches when setting the value of the lookup.
                              By default, this is turned off.
                              The relationship combinations that are possible when you filter related
                              records are listed in the table following this one.
                              The first list is populated with all the potential relationships you can use
                              to filter this lookup. Select one.
                              The second list is then populated with all relationships that connect the
                              related table (selected in first list) to the target table. Select one.
                              Select the Allow users to turn off filter check box to give users the
                              option to turn off the filter you define here.
                              When users select the Look Up More Records option while setting the
                              value for a lookup, they see this dialog box.
           Section       Property       Description
                                        If you’ve selected the Allow users to turn off filter option while
                                        configuring the lookup column, users will see the check box to turn off
                                        the filter. This makes it possible for them to see a wider range of records.
                                        If you want to make sure that users only see a limited range of records
                                        defined by this filter, clear the Allow users to turn off filter check box.
           Additional    Display        You can choose not to display the search box in the lookup dialog.
           Properties    Search Box in
                         lookup
                         dialog
                         Default View   This view is used to filter the results of the inline search and set the
                                        default view shown in the lookup dialog when users select the Look Up
                                        More Records option.
                                        The default view also controls which columns are included in the inline
                                        lookup.
                                        For lookups that only allow selection of a single table type, the columns
                                        displayed in the inline lookup are set to be the first two columns
          Section       Property      Description
                                      included in the default view. In this example, Main Phone and Email are
                                      the first two columns in the default view configured for an account
                                      lookup.
                                      For system lookups that allow for multiple table types, the first two
                                      columns of the table lookup view are shown.
                        View Selector You can choose from three options:
                                      - Off: Don’t allow users to choose a different view.
                                      - Show All Views: All views are available.
                                      - Show Selected Views: When you choose this option you can use the
                                      Ctrl key and your cursor to choose which views to show. The Lookup
                                      view for the table can’t be de-selected.
         Possible relationship combinations
                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                         Expand table
          First list relationship            Second list relationship               Available?
          N:1                                1:N                                    Yes
          N:1                                N:1                                    Yes
          N:1                                N:N                                    Yes
          1:N                                1:N                                    Yes
          1:N                                N:1                                    No
          1:N                                N:N                                    No
          N:N                                1:N                                    Yes
          N:N                                N:1                                    No
          N:N                                N:N                                    No
         Yes/No column properties
         On the formatting tab, Yes/No columns have the following formatting choices:
              Two radio buttons: Two labeled controls with labels. Only one may be selected.
              Checkbox: A single checkbox to set the true value, otherwise false.
          List: A drop-down list containing both values.
      Multiple lines of text column properties
      Multiple lines of text and single line of text columns that use the Text Area format have a
      Record Layout property. With this property you can specify a value for Number of Records or
      select Automatically expand to use available space.
       Last updated on 02/12/2026
      Translate localizable text for model-driven
      apps
        Summarize this article for me
      ﾃ
      If you customize table or column text, such as column labels or drop-down list values, you can
      provide users in your environment who aren't working with the base language version of your
      environment with this customized text in their preferred languages.
      The process has the following steps:
       1. Enable other languages for your environment
       2. Export the localizable text
       3. Get the localizable text translated
       4. Import the localized text
      Enable other languages for your environment
      If you haven't already enabled the languages for your environment, use the steps described in
      Enable the language to enable them.
       ） Important
       Each language can take several minutes to enable. During this time, other users of the
       environment might not be able to use your app. Enable languages at a time that is least
       disruptive to users.
        Tip
       While you enable the languages, note the LCID values used for each language. This value
       represents the language in the exported data for the localizable text. Language codes are
       four-digit or five-digit locale IDs. Valid locale ID values can be found at Locale ID (LCID)
       Chart).
      Export the localizable text
      The localizable text that you export comes from the unmanaged solution that contains the
      localizable text.
           1. From Power Apps  , select Solutions. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
             More and then select the item you want.
           2. In the All Solutions list, select the unmanaged solution that contains the localizable text
             you want.
           3. On the command bar, select Translations > Export Translations.
             You could see an alert:
               Exporting customized labels for translation can take several minutes. Do not click the
               export link again until the first export has finished. Are you sure that you want to
               export now?
               Select OK if you want to continue.
        When the export is completed, save the translations zip file. The file is named something like
         CrmTranslations_{0}_{1}.zip, where {0} is the unique name of the solution and {1} is the
        version number of the solution.
        Get the localizable text translated
        You can send this file to a linguistic expert, translation agency, or localization firm.
        If you have the knowledge to translate the text, or if you just want to see the format, you can
        extract the zip file that you exported you see that it contains two XML files.
              [Content_Types].xml
              CrmTranslations.xml
        You can open the CrmTranslations.xml file with Microsoft Office Excel.
      Tip
     Unless you normally open XML files with Excel, it might be easier to open Excel, then
     choose to open the file by pasting in the path to the extracted CrmTranslations.xml file.
     ） Important
     Don't change the file format. If you save the file in another format, you can't import it
     back.
    When you view the data in Excel, look at the Localized Labels tab.
    Any custom tables or columns have empty cells for the localizable text. Add the localized
    values for those items.
     ７ Note
     If you have changed the display name or description for any standard table or table
     column, the localized strings will still reflect the translations for the original value. Those
     should be localized to reflect the new value.
    The Display Strings tab contains text that is displayed for other UI elements such as ribbon
    commands, error messages, and form labels.
    Update localizable text in the base language
    If you change the display name for any standard table or table column, which is included in any
    special message, update the information in the Display Strings tab to use the customized
      name.
         Tip
        Although the UI exposed to edit system table messages includes many references to table
        names, it doesn't include all of them. Using this technique might find more. More
        information: Edit system table messages
      For example, if you change the display name for the Account table to Company, search
      through the base language column in the Display Strings for the following matches: account,
       accounts, Account, and Accounts then make appropriate replacements to company, companies,
       Company, and Companies respectively.
        ） Important
        Don't do a general find and replace in the file for this. Make sure that the matching text
        actually refers to the names that you changed.
      Import the localized text
      Importing the text requires compressing the files and importing them into the system.
      Compress the files
      After you make changes to the CrmTranslations.xml file, compress the file together with the
       [Content_Types].xml file into the zip format. Select both files and then right-click to open the
      context menu. In the context menu, choose Send to > Compressed (zipped) folder.
      Import the files
      From the same unmanaged solution that you exported the translations from, in the menu
      choose Translations > Import Translations.
      Select the file that contains the compressed translated text and select Import.
      After you import the translated text, publish all customizations to see the changes in your apps.
      Next steps
      Regional and language options for your organization
      Edit system table messages
      Last updated on 03/04/2026
      Model-driven app interface design
      overview
      Article • 04/23/2025
      Model-driven app interface design includes working with table views and forms. To work with
      these components in your app, you create pages.
      Creating pages in a model-driven app builds the app site-map that describes the navigation
      experience within the app.
      App interface design can include changing the command bar menu in an app.
      This article mentions the classic approach to developing apps. This includes the creation of
      apps in addition to working with forms, views, and other elements.
      Model-driven app design
      Here's an overview of the model-driven app design process.
      Designing a model-driven app requires a range of skills. There are many design tools that
      enable a model-driven app to be created. At times the app maker plays the role of a database
      designer, a user experience customizer, and even a process designer.
      Model-driven apps are essentially a selection of Microsoft Dataverse components (tables,
      charts, dashboards) that work alongside each other to achieve a business outcome. These
      components are delivered in conjunction with the Dataverse security roles to create a user
      experience that meets the needs of members of different parts of an organization.
      This means that the same app can be used by colleagues in different departments. In some
      cases, users only want to review data and might only have interest in specific areas in order to
      complete their daily objectives.
      The design of tables and table columns is covered under a documentation dedicated to this
      article. Learn more about creating Dataverse tables.
      App interface design resources
      The following table describes the resources in this section.
                                                   ﾉ
                                                     Expand table
           Title                        Detail                                                     Link
           Use the modern app designer  An overview of the most recent experience for building     Learn
                                        model-driven apps.                                         more
           Use the classic app designer How to create an app using the classic method.             Learn
                                                                                                   more
           Working with views           How to create or edit table views.                         Learn
                                                                                                   more
           Working with forms           How to create or edit forms.                               Learn
                                                                                                   more
           Use custom pages with        How to understand and work with custom pages.              Learn
           model-driven apps                                                                       more
           Customize app commands       Discover how to customize the command bar menu located     Learn
                                        near the top of a model-driven app.                        more
          See also
          Learn more about Dataverse security roles
       Overview of the model-driven app
       designer
       Article • 01/27/2025
       The model-driven app designer provides a modern WYSIWYG authoring experience
       when you work with model-driven apps.
       Changes to the app are instantly reflected in the preview, enabling you to see exactly
       how the app will appear to users when published.
       The app designer interface has the following areas:
        1. Command bar – Displays the available actions:
            Back. Closes the model-driven app designer and returns you to the Power
            Apps website (make.powerapps.com).
            Add page. Creates a new page, which can include table forms and views,
            table dashboards, or a custom page for the app.
            Settings. Opens the app properties such as name and description.
            Edit form: Open the form designer to edit the default form shown in app
            preview.
            Comments. Add a comment to the app. More information: Add comments in
            the model-driven app designer
            Save. Saves the app.
            Publish. Makes the changes made available to other users.
            Play. Opens the app in a new tab in run mode.
        2. App preview – Displays a real-time preview of the form as it will appear to users
         when published.
        3. Panes - The left navigation pane consists of the following areas:
            Pages. The Navigation section displays a layout of your app that is formed
            using areas, groups, and subareas. You can add or remove groups and
            subareas to the navigation. The All other pages portion displays the
            components in your app. From this section, you can choose to add or remove
            forms, views, and dashboards for each table.
            Data. Provides a view of all available tables that are currently used within
            your app and a view of all tables that are available in your environment.
            Automation. Displays business process flows that are a part of this app. You
            can add, remove, or create new business process flows to the app.
        4. Property pane – Displays properties of the selected component and associated
         forms and views with the selected table. Selecting the pencil or ellipsis opens the
         form or view designer.
        5. Preview size switcher - Changes the size of the form preview helping you to see
         how the form will appear on various screen sizes.
        6. Zoom slider - Zooms in or out of the app preview helping you take a closer look.
        7. Fit to screen - Quick action to fit the app preview to the available screen size.
                                                 
       Navigation pane options
      To edit the app's navigation, select ... next to Navigation, and then select Settings.
      The following options are available:
       1. Show Home. Enabled by default. When selected, displays the Home page link for
        the app.
       2. Show Recent. Enabled by default. When selected, displays the recently viewed
        pages link. Selecting the link displays all recently viewed pages.
       3. Show Pinned. Enabled by default. When selected, displays the pages that have
        been pinned. App users select the push-pin icon next to a record listed under
        Recent to add it to their pinned rows.
       4. Enable collapsible groups. Disabled by default. When selected, subareas displayed
        under groups in the site map can be expanded or collapsed.
       5. Enable Areas. Disabled by default. When selected, new areas can be added to the
        app. For apps with existing multiple areas, this setting is enabled by default. You
        can't disable this setting while the app has multiple areas.
              Known limitation
                    The app’s URL can’t be specified.
              Next steps
              Create a model-driven app using the app designer
              Working with custom pages
              Understanding app navigation
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
         Create a model-driven app with the app
         designer
         In this article, you learn the basics of how to create a model-driven app that can be shared and
         distributed to other environments.
         Prerequisites
         Verify the availability of the following prerequisites before you start to create a model-driven
         app:
              A Power Platform environment used for app development.
              An environment maker, system administrator, or system customizer security role.
         For more information, go to the following articles:
              Create an environment
              Environment strategy for ALM
              About predefined security roles
         Create an app
           1. On the Power Apps    Home page, select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the
              item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …More and then select the item you want.
           2. Open an unmanaged solution or create a new solution.
                ７ Note
                Unmanaged solutions are displayed when the Unmanaged filter is selected in the
                Solutions area.
                Although the Default Solution is an unmanaged solution, it is in most circumstances
                not recommended to create or edit customizations in the default solution.
           3. Select New > App > Model-driven app.
           4. On the New model-driven app dialog box, enter a Name and optionally, a Description,
              and then select Create.
           5. On the command bar, select Add page > Dataverse table.
      6. From the list of tables, select Account, select Contact, and then select Add.
    On the Pages left pane, under Navigation the layout for the app is displayed.
     Notice the preview pane displays your app. When you select a component, such as the
     Accounts form, it affects what's displayed in the preview and property panes. If your
     environment includes data that you have access to view, that also appears in the preview.
                                                     
     To save and publish the app, select Save and Publish.
     To see how the app runs in a full browser window, on the command bar, select Play.
     Create an app description with Copilot
     If your app is in a managed environment, you can use AI to help create a description for your
     app.
      ） Important
         To use this capability your app must be in a managed environment.
         This capability is powered by Azure OpenAI Service.
         This capability is in process of rolling out, and might not be available in your region
         yet.
         This capability might be subject to usage limits or capacity throttling.
         To understand capabilities and limitations of AI-powered and Copilot features in
         Power Apps, go to Responsible AI FAQs for Power Apps
     When you save and publish your app, on the Publish dialog box select Create descriptions
     using AI to replace your current description or, if your app doesn't have a description, Copilot
         generates one for you.
         You can also generate an app description in app designer by going to, Settings > General tab.
         Under Description select, Create descriptions using AI.
         For information that describes the AI impact of Power Apps generate app descriptions with
         Copilot feature, go to FAQ for generate app descriptions with Copilot.
         Enable or disable AI-generated app descriptions
         The app AI-generated descriptions are managed by a setting in the Power Platform admin
         center.
            1. Go to Environments in the Power Platform admin center  .
            2. Select an environment, and then select Edit managed environments.
            3. Under the section titled Enable AI-generated app descriptions, select or clear AI-
              generated app descriptions
            4. Select Save.
         Clear the browser cache and close any active Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) browser
         windows. The feature is now be enabled or disabled.
         Next steps
              Add areas, groups, and subareas for app navigation
              Create, add and remove forms, views or dashboards
              Create and remove pages
              Configure app properties (Preview)
              Configure app properties
          Last updated on 01/09/2026
         Build your first model-driven app
         In this tutorial, you create a model-driven app by using one of the standard tables that is
         available in Microsoft Dataverse, the account table.
                                                                                                  
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   . If you don't already have a Power Apps account, select the Get
              started free link.
            2. Select an environment. An environment in Power Apps is a space to store, manage, and
              share your organization’s business data, apps, chatbots, and flows. It also serves as a
              container to separate apps that might have different roles, security requirements, or
              target audiences.
              Each environment can have one Dataverse database.
              Select the environment you want. If your tenant allows you to create your own
              environment, select the current environment from the top right, and then select Try it
              now. More information: Get your developer environment (preview)
            3. We recommend creating your model-driven app from a solution. A solution is a package
              that can contain Dataverse tables, forms, views, apps, flows, and other components. By
              building your model driven-app in a solution, you can easily move it to other
              environments or preserve a copy in your source control repository.
              Select Solutions on the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select
              …More and then select the item you want.
      4. Select New solution, enter a Display name for your solution, such as Power Apps Training,
        select a publisher (the CDS Default Publisher is okay for this tutorial), and then select
        Create. For more information about creating a solution, go to Create a solution.
      5. In your solution, select Add existing, and then select Table.
      6. In the Add existing tables list, select the Account table, and then select Next.
      7. Since this is a standard table, leave the default setting for account table objects and
        metadata and select Add.
        Now that you have a solution and have added the account table to it, you're ready to
        create a model-driven app.
      8. In your solution, select New, select App, and then select Model-driven app.
      9. Enter a name for the app, such as My new custom app, and then select Create.
        Your app loads in the model-driven app designer.
     Add a page to your app
     Next, you add a new page to the model-driven app in the app designer.
      1. Select Add page on the command bar, and then select Dataverse table.
      2. Select Account, and then select Add.
     Your app with the account table is displayed similarly to how it appears to users at run time
     when published. If your environment has sample data, the sample list of active accounts might
     appear in the All Accounts view.
     Save and publish your app
     Save your app so that your app and changes aren't lost. To make it available to users, publish it.
     To save without publishing, on the app designer command bar, select Save.
     To save and publish, on the app designer command bar, select Publish.
     Create an app description with Copilot
     If your app is in a managed environment, you can use AI to help you create a description for
     your app.
      ） Important
         To use this capability your app must be in a managed environment.
         This capability is powered by Azure OpenAI Service.
         This capability might be subject to usage limits or capacity throttling.
         To understand capabilities and limitations of AI-powered and Copilot features in
         Power Apps, go to Responsible AI FAQs for Power Apps
     When you save and publish your app, on the Publish dialog box select, Create descriptions
     using AI to replace your current description or, if your app doesn't have a description, Copilot
     generates one for you.
     You can also generate an app description by going to, Settings > General. Under Description
     select, Create descriptions using AI.
     For information that describes the AI impact of Power Apps generate app descriptions with
     Copilot feature, go to FAQ for generate app descriptions with Copilot.
     Enable or disable AI-generated app descriptions
     App AI-generated descriptions are managed by a setting in the Power Platform admin center.
       1. Open https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/environments
       2. Select an environment, and then select Edit managed environments.
       3. Under the section titled Enable AI-generated app descriptions, select or clear AI-
        generated app descriptions
       4. Select Save.
     Clear the browser cache and close any active Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) browser
     windows. The feature is now be enabled or disabled.
     Run your app on a desktop computer
            1. To run your app, sign in to Power Apps   , and on the left navigation pane, select Apps.
            2. Select the app from the app list. The app opens in your browser. If you want to show the
               chart, use the button Show Chart.
         Run your app on mobile
      To run your app on your mobile device, follow these steps:
       1. Download the app from your device's mobile app store:
            IOS:  Power Apps on the App Store (apple.com)
            Android: Power Apps - Apps on Google Play
       2. Open the app, tap Sign in, and then enter your Microsoft work or school account.
       3. Select your app from the list to run it.
      Next steps
      Add additional pages and configurations to make your app do more!
         Add a custom page where a canvas app runs from your model-driven app. More
         information: Overview of custom pages for model-driven apps
         Create Dataverse custom tables that you can add to your app the same way as you added
         the account table in this tutorial. More information: Create and edit tables using Power
         Apps
         Identify the URL of your model-driven app. More information: Run a model-driven app in
         a browser
         Share your app. More information Share a model-driven app.
         Learn more about building model-driven apps. More information: Understand model-
         driven app components
        Tip
       Ready to convert your ideas into an app? Start here: Planning a Power Apps project.
      Last updated on 01/09/2026
    App navigation in model-driven apps
    In a model-driven app, there are the three main app runtime navigation components.
      Areas - For apps with more than one area, a switch control appears in the lower left
      navigation pane. In the following screenshot, the current area is named Accounts.
      Groups - Group names appear as a navigation element in an app, with the subarea names
      within the group listed beneath it. In the following screenshot, one group is named
      Accounts and one is named New Group.
      Pages - Pages appear under the group that you configure in the app designer. In the
      following screenshot, one page is named All accounts revenue and another page is named
      Contacts.
     Create an area
     By default, the ability to create additional areas is disabled. Areas are enabled by default for apps
     with existing multiple areas.
     Enable areas
      1. On the command bar select Settings.
      2. Select Navigation on the left pane, and then select Enable Areas.
      3. Close the Settings dialog.
    Add a new area
     1. On the left navigation pane, select Pages.
     2. Select the area switcher under Pages, and then select New area. If the area switcher is
      missing, you need to enable areas.
     3. On the New Area right pane, complete the properties pane for the area:
         Title: Enter a title used to describe the area.
         Icon: Optionally set an icon for the area. More information: Create or edit model-
         driven app web resources to extend an app
         ID: The system generates an identifier for the area. Accept the system generated ID or
         enter a new one.
          Advanced Settings:
            Localized titles: Add localized titles for the area title. For more information, see
            Translate localizable text for model-driven apps.
            Localized descriptions: Add localized descriptions for the area description. For
            more information, see Translate localizable text for model-driven apps.
      4. To save your app navigation changes select Save.
      5. To publish the changes and make them available to other users, select Save and Publish.
     Create a group
     To create a new group, complete the following steps:
      1. On the left navigation pane, select Pages.
      2. Select ... next to Navigation.
     3. Select New group.
     4. Complete the properties pane for the group:
         Title: Enter a title used to describe the group.
         ID: The system generates an identifier for the group. Accept the system generated ID
         or enter a new one.
         Advanced Settings:
          Localized titles: Add localized titles for the group title. More information: Translate
          localizable text for model-driven apps
          Localized descriptions: Add localized descriptions for the group description. More
          information: Translate localizable text for model-driven apps
      5. To save your app navigation changes select Save.
      6. To publish the changes and make them available to other users, select Save and Publish.
     Create a page
     To create a new page, complete the following steps:
      1. On the command bar, select Add page.
      2. Select the content type you want.
          Generative page. Use natural language to build a generative page that's created using
          AI. For more information, see Generate a page using natural language.
          Dataverse table. Select an existing table or create a new one. More information:
          Create a custom table
          Dashboard. Select a dashboard. More information: Create or edit model-driven app
          dashboards
          Custom page. Add a custom page, such as a canvas app page. More information:
          [Overview of custom pages for model-driven apps]
          Web resource. Web resources represent files that can be used to extend an application
          such as HTML files, JavaScript, and CSS, and several image formats.
          Navigation link. Add a URL, such as a website address. More information: Add a URL
          to an app
          Dashboard. Add a Dataverse or Power BI embedded dashboard as a page in the app.
          For more information, see Create or edit model-driven app dashboards and Create or
          edit a Power BI embedded system dashboard. (model-app-page-overview.md)
      3. Complete the choices that are on you screen to create the page, and then select Add.
      4. To save your app navigation changes select Save.
      5. To publish the changes and make them available to other users, select Publish.
     Add a URL to an app
     A URL is a type of page in the app navigation. When the user selects the page, the URL opens in a
     new tab in the web browser.
           1. In the model-driven app designer, select Add page on the command bar.
           2. On the New page screen, select URL, and then select Next.
           3. In the properties pane for the URL, enter the following information, and then select Add:
                   URL: Enter the full URL, such as https://www.microsoft.com   .
                   Title: Enter a title for the URL component.
           4. To save your app navigation changes select Save.
           5. To publish the changes and make them available to other users, select Publish.
        Remove a group or page
           1. On the left navigation pane, select Pages.
       2. Select the group or page you want, select the ellipses (...) and then select Remove from
         navigation.
     Remove an area
       1. On the left navigation pane, select Pages.
       2. Select the area switcher under Pages, select ... next to the area you want to remove, and
         then select Remove from navigation.
     See also
     Overview of the model-driven app designer (preview)
      Last updated on 08/12/2026
         Work with model-driven app pages
         07/17/2025
         App designer pages are containers for tables, dashboards, custom pages, or web resources.
         Pages determine your app's assets and navigation. You can choose whether to have the page
         appear in the app navigation (site map) or not.
                                                                                                  
         Create a page
         To create a page, follow these steps:
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   , select Apps, and then Edit the app you want.
            2. In the app designer on the Pages tab, select New.
            3. Select the page type, and then select Next:
                    Describe a page. Use natural language to create a generative page that's generated
                    using AI. More information: Describe a page using natural language (preview)
                    Dataverse table: Display records of a standard or custom table in a full-page list
                    view. Creating a data view page also adds an associated form page for viewing and
                    editing data on a selected record. More information: Tables in Dataverse
                    Dashboard: Display charts and tables from multiple entities to visualize data on a
                    single page. Select one or more system, interactive, or Power BI dashboards. More
                    information: Create or edit model-driven app dashboards
           Custom page: Design and build a page that's based on a canvas app. More
           information: Overview of custom pages for model-driven apps
           Web resource: Select a web resource from a list of web resources. More information:
           Create or edit model-driven app web resources to extend an app
           Navigation link: Enter a direct link to a web resource. Create or edit model-driven
           app web resources to extend an app
       4. If you don't want your page to appear in the app's site map, clear the Show in navigation
        option.
       5. Select Add.
     Work with tables on a page
     Create and edit tables directly from the app designer.
     Create a table for a page
       1. In the model-driven app designer, select Add page, select Dataverse table as the page
        type.
       2. Select Create new tables. Otherwise, if your table is already created select it from the list.
       3. If you selected Create a new tables:
           Select the option you want to create a table and follow the instructions on your
           screen.
           More information: Create new tables
    Edit a table for a page
    From the Pages tab in app designer, select ... to the right of the table name, and then select
    Edit table.
    The table designer opens for you to make changes to the table.
    To delete the table, Close the table hub, select ... to the right of the table name, and then select
    Remove.
     Edit a table view
     To edit a view for a table that's added to your app in a page, complete these steps:
       1. In the model-driven app designer, select a page that is based on a table.
       2. On the command bar, select Edit view.
     The view designer is displayed where you can edit the table view. More information: Edit public
     views from a table
     Remove a page
     To remove a page, complete these steps:
       1. In the model-driven app designer, select a page.
       2. Select the ellipses (...), and then select Remove from navigation.
     Next steps
     Create and customize a model-driven app form
     Create or edit model-driven app dashboards
     Add a custom page to your model-driven app
        Manage model-driven app settings in the
        app designer
        App settings define important details about the app, like its title. You define app settings when
        you create an app. If you want to change those settings later, you can do that in the app
        designer.
        You must select Publish to activate an app settings change.
            1. In the app designer select Settings on the command bar.
            2. View and change the information, as required:
                                                                                             ﾉ
                                                                                                 Expand table
               Area         Setting       Description
               General      Solution      Read-only property that displays the solution name where the app is
                                          located.
               General      App name      The friendly name for the app.
               General      Description   The description of the app (optional). If your app is in a managed
                                          environment, you can select Create description using AI to have Copilot
                                          generate one for you. More information: Create an app description with
                                          Copilot
               General      Icon          Change the app icon by selecting Select icon, to browse and select an
                                          image web resource. This icon is displayed on the preview tile of the app.
                                          More information: Create or edit model-driven app web resources to
                                          extend an app
               Advanced     Unique        Read-only property that displays the app unique name including the
               settings     name          publisher prefix.
               Advanced     Welcome       This option allows a maker to select from the web resources available in
               settings     page          your organization. The welcome pages created contain information that's
                                          useful to users, such as links to videos, upgrade instructions, or getting
                                          started information. The welcome page is displayed when an app is
                                          opened. Users can select Do not show this Welcome Screen next time
                                          on the welcome page to disable the page so it doesn't appear the next
                                          time the app starts. Notice that the Do not show this Welcome Screen
                                          next time option is a user-level setting and can't be controlled by
                                          administrators or app makers. More information: Create or edit model-
                                          driven app web resources to extend an app
               Area         Setting       Description
               Advanced     Primary       Determines which mobile player you want the model-driven app to be
               settings     mobile        available from. By default, Power Apps mobile is selected. For example, if
                            player        you want the model-driven app only available from the Dynamics 365
                                          Sales mobile app, select Dynamics 365 Sales.
                                          - Power Apps Mobile. More information: Use model-driven apps on
                                          Power Apps mobile
                                          - Dynamics 365 Sales. More information: Overview of Dynamics 365
                                          Sales mobile app
                                          - Field Service (Dynamics 365). More information: Overview of the Field
                                          Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app
            3. Save and Publish the app.
        Features
        When you select Settings from the command bar, select Features to enable or disable model-
        driven app features for the app.
        Here are a few of the features available to app makers:
              Enable Power BI quick report visualizations on a table. Enabled by default, this feature
              allows app users to create a Power BI quick report from a table view by selecting the
              Visualize this view command on the app command bar. More information: Visualize data in
              a view with Power BI service
       In app notifications. When enabled, the app polls for new in-app notifications and displays
       them. More information: Send in-app notifications within model-driven apps
       Lock tabs at the top of forms on mobile and tablets. When enabled, tabs remain visible at
       the top of a form while users scroll through the data on the form. More information: Lock
       tabs at the top of forms
       Mobile commanding improvements. When enabled, optimizes the command bar for
       phone and tablet providing easy access to contextual commands to users helping increase
       productivity and satisfaction. More information: Mobile commanding improvements
       Enable offline classic. Enable mobile offline classoc
       Tablet optimization for command bar. When enabled, replaces the native command bar at
       the bottom of the screen with the web command bar located at the top of the screen on
       tablets. More information: Tablet optimization for command bar
       New look for model-driven apps. Enabled by default, this feature determines whether end
       users see the modern refresh app experience or the classic look. This setting is hidden and
       ignored with the 2026 Wave 1 release when the new look becomes mandatory. More
       information: Modern, refreshed look for model-driven apps
       Form fill assist toolbar. When enabled, the form fill assist toolbar is visible at the top of a
       form, providing easy access to Copilot form fill assistance capabilities like smart paste and
       files. For more information about AI form fill assistance environment settings, go to AI form
       fill assistance. For more information about using this feature, go to Use Copilot's form fill
       assistance feature in model-driven apps.
    Navigation
    Controls navigation features for the app.
       Home. Displays a link to the home page for the model-driven app.
       Recent. Displays the list of links for the model-driven app that were recently visited.
       Pinned. Pin items from the Recent list to locate them easily.
       Enable collapsibile groups. Disabled by default. Allows groups to be collapsed or expanded.
       More information: Create a group
       Enable Areas. Disabled by default. Areas can contain multiple groups. For apps with
       multiple areas, a user must select the area switch located at the bottom left in the app to
       change to a different area. Add a new area
    Upcoming
    [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
      The Upcoming tab displays preview features currently available:
        ） Important
        Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted functionality.
        These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early access
        and provide feedback.
           Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps. Microsoft 365 Copilot chat makes it easier for
           users to work with model-driven apps by offering AI-powered insights through natural
           language conversations. With this feature, users can quickly find information, navigate apps
           more easily, and get help to boost their productivity. More information: Add Microsoft 365
           Copilot chat for app users in model-driven apps (preview)
      Known limitations
      The following app properties can't be edited in the app designer:
           App Url Suffix
           Manage App
      See also
      Create or edit an app
       Last updated on 04/22/2026
          Overview of custom pages for model-
          driven apps
          The custom page is a new page type within a model-driven app, which brings the power of
          canvas apps into model-driven apps. Custom pages increase the convergence of model-driven
          and canvas apps and can be used to add full pages, dialogs, or panes with the flexibility of
          Power Apps Studio. It also includes a low-code page authoring experience with expressions
          and custom Power Apps component framework controls.
          A custom page is more flexible than a model-driven app form, view, or dashboard page. You
          can include one or more tables. Then, you define the data and component interactions. The
          custom page is a separate solution element, which means one maker can edit one custom
          page at a time. Like other model-driven app pages, the page state comes from the parameters
          passed or is retrieved from persisted tables.
            ） Important
            Custom pages are a feature with significant product changes and currently have a few
            known limitations outlined in Custom Page Known Issues.
                                                                                            ﾉ Expand table
           Capability                 Status         Notes
           Runtime for custom         General
           pages                      Availability
           Solution and ALM for       General
           custom pages               Availability
           Connectors in custom       General        List of all Power Apps connectors
           pages                      Availability
           Modern controls in         General        List of supported controls
           custom pages               Availability
           Code components in         General
           custom pages               Availability
           Monitor support for        General
           custom pages               Availability
           Authoring custom pages     General        Use the modern app designer and Power Apps Studio to
                                      Availability   author custom pages that are supported at runtime.
           Capability               Status          Notes
           Canvas components in     General
           custom pages             Availability
           Custom page in Teams     Public preview
           model-driven app
           Custom page in mobile    Public preview  iOS must allow enabling “Allow cross site tracking” that can
           online                                   be prevented by device management
         Examples of custom pages
         These images show the custom page inline within the model-driven app. The model-driven
         app has the full-page space in the images without the header and navigation.
         Custom page as main page.
         [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
         Custom page as a center dialog.
    [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    Custom page as a side dialog.
    [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    Custom page as an app side pane allows opening a custom page within the new app side pane
    on the right side of the app.
     [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
     Custom pages must be created from a solution either from the modern app designer or the
     Solution area in Power Apps using New > Page. More information: Add a custom page to your
     model-driven app
     Custom pages are different than embedded canvas
     apps
     By using a custom page, you can create a new page experience by using the canvas app
     capabilities. This approach provides a low-code authoring experience with more flexible
     layouts, more control with styling options, the ability to add connector data, use expressions,
     and more. You create custom pages in Power Apps Studio with increasing context of the
     model-driven app that the page runs in.
     Embedded canvas apps also use the canvas capabilities with a hosting approach that isn't as
     integrated as a custom page. The simpler integration of an embedded canvas app means the
     current limitation on number of embedded canvas apps hasn't changed. The advanced
     integration of the custom page addresses those limits. The embedded canvas app can only be
     placed on a model-driven form acting like a low-code component. More information: Embed a
     canvas app on a model-driven form.
     In most cases, use custom pages instead of embedded canvas apps for tighter integration and
     better performance.
      ７ Note
      Don't exceed 25 custom pages in a model-driven app. If you add more custom pages, it
      can increase the wait time that an app user experiences when they play an app with
      custom pages, after the last app publish. The increased user wait time affects only the first
      app launch, by the first user, after the last publish of the model-driven app.
     Migrate standalone canvas app content to custom
     pages
     Existing standalone canvas apps aren't supported for use as a custom page and the expected
     app structure is different. A standalone canvas app often has many screens with global access
     to all controls and variables. The custom page is expected to typically be a single screen with
     loose coupling to provide performance and co-development capabilities.
     To migrate an existing standalone canvas app, start by identifying a mapping of screens to
     separate custom pages. For each separate custom page, complete these steps:
       1. Create a blank custom page from the model-driven app designer. More information: Add
        a custom page to your model-driven app
       2. Add a canvas app data source for data used by the screen.
       3. Copy the screen from the original canvas app in Power Apps Studio.
       4. Paste the screen into the blank custom page in Power Apps Studio.
       5. Change the navigate calls to use the custom page name instead of the screen name.
       6. Add the custom page into the model-driven app designer site map.
     Frequently asked questions
        What data can the custom page use?
        A custom page can use Microsoft Dataverse and all of the connectors for Power Apps.
        More information: List of all Power Apps connectors.
        What interactions can the custom page have with the model-driven app?
        Custom pages can be added to the site map for direct navigation using Add custom page
        to sitemap. Model-driven app pages can open a custom page using the navigateTo Client
        API. Custom pages can navigate to other custom pages or to a model-driven app page
        such as a form, view, or dashboard with the Power Fx navigate function. More
        information: Navigating to a custom page
       How is the custom page made responsive?
       The responsive container controls enable building a responsive app page without
       formulas. More information: Building responsive pages. More custom page design
       guidance can also be found in Design a custom page for your model-driven app.
       How is the custom page managed in a solution?
       Each custom page is a separate component in the solution, which allows one maker to
       edit one custom page at a time. Most custom pages will have a single screen. Instead of
       multiple screens, they use the custom page's navigation functions to move to another
       custom page or model-driven app page. When a custom page has multiple screens, it's
       still a single solution component so only one maker can be working on the contained set
       of screens.
       What licenses are allowed to use a custom page and does a custom page impact app
       counts?
       The custom page uses a special canvas app type, which allows it to be managed
       differently. The custom page is considered part of the model-driven app infrastructure
       and can only be used within a model-driven app. So, it follows the license for the model-
       driven app. Also, custom pages don't count toward the app limits because they're treated
       as a page instead of an app.
       Do custom pages need to be shared like standalone canvas apps?
       The custom page aligns with the model-driven app page sharing, which relies on the
       model-driven app sharing without sharing individual pages for app users. Makers might
       need to share the custom page to allow editing.
    See also
    Add a custom page to your model-driven app
    Design a custom page for your model-driven app
    Using PowerFx in custom page
    Add connectors into custom pages
    Use Monitor to troubleshoot custom page
    Model-driven app custom page known issues
      Last updated on 03/31/2026
     Add a custom page to your model-driven
     app
     This article shows you how to create and edit a custom page for a model-driven app by using
     the modern app designer.
     This article walks you through opening a model-driven app in the app designer, which you use
     to add a custom page to a model-driven app. If you need to create a new model-driven app,
     go to Create a model-driven app with the app designer.
     For information about the limitations and known issues with custom pages, see Custom page
     known issues.
     Create or edit a custom page
     Custom pages can be created from two places. The first is while authoring a model-driven app
     in the modern app designer. The other is from the Solutions area in Power Apps. Custom
     pages can be edited from the Solutions area but won't appear in the Home or Apps areas of
     make.powerapps.com.
      ７ Note
      Custom pages must be created from a solution either from the modern app designer or
      the Solutions area in Power Apps using New > App > Page. The custom page is a
      different canvas app type than the normal standalone canvas app.
     Create new custom page from modern app designer
       1. Open make.powerapps.com .
       2. On the left navigation pane, select Solutions. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
        select …More and then select the item you want.
       3. Open the solution containing the existing model-driven app.
       4. Select the model-driven app where you want to add a custom page, and then select Edit
        on the command bar.
            5. In the app designer, select Add page > Custom page on the command bar.
            6. Select Create custom page.
            7. Power Apps Studio opens for page authoring.
            8. When you're finished creating your canvas app custom page, Save, Publish, and then
              close the Power Apps Studio browser tab to return to the model-driven app designer.
         Create new custom page from the solutions area
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
              select …More and then select the item you want.
            3. Open or create a solution to contain the new custom page.
      4. Select New > App > Page.
     Edit an existing custom page
      1. Open make.powerapps.com .
      2. Select Solutions from the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane,
       select …More and then select the item you want.
      3. Open or create a solution to contain the new custom page.
      4. Select the custom page with Page type, and then select Edit.
     Author custom page content
      1. Design the custom page content. More information: Design a custom page for your
       model-driven app
      2. Save and publish the custom page.
      3. Close Power Apps Studio.
      4. Return to the app designer browser tab and refresh the app designer by selecting
       Dismiss.
            5. Select Publish in the app designer to add the changed custom page into the model-
              driven app.
            6. Select Preview to play the app in a new browser tab.
         Add an existing custom page into a site map
            1. Sign in to make.powerapps.com  .
            2. Open an existing model-driven app using modern app designer.
            3. Select Add page > Custom page on the command bar.
            4. Select the custom page in the list of custom pages available in the environment, and then
              select Add.
      5. Select Publish, which also saves the app if there are changes.
      6. Select Play to run the app in a new browser tab.
      7. To close the app designer select Back and return to the solution.
     Publishing a custom page
      ） Important
      Currently, model-driven apps must be re-published after a custom page is published.
      Otherwise the model-driven app continues to use the previous published custom page.
     After saving changes to a custom page in Power Apps Studio, the custom page must be first
     published by Power Apps Studio. Then all model-driven apps referencing that custom page
     need to be published.
      1. From Power Apps Studio, select Publish.
      2. From app designer or solutions area, select Publish on each model-driven app
        referencing the custom page.
     See also
      Model-driven app custom page overview
      Design a custom page for your model-driven app
      Using PowerFx in custom page
      Navigating to a custom page using client API
      Code components for custom page designer
      Last updated on 04/08/2026
       Design a custom page for your model-
       driven app
       This article provides tips for designing a custom page for use in a model-driven app. A custom
       page lets you create a page that's similar to a canvas app in your model-driven app.
         ） Important
         Custom pages are a new feature with significant product changes and currently have a
         number of known limitations outlined in Custom page known issues.
       Supported controls in a custom page
       Custom page authoring supports a subset of canvas app controls. The following table lists the
       currently supported controls.
                                                                         ﾉ
                                                                            Expand table
        Control                    Control Type  Notes
            1
        Label                      Display
              1
        Text Box                   Input
                1
        Date Picker                Input
             1
        Button                     Input
                1
        Combo Box                  Input
               1
        Check Box                  Input
             1
        Toggle                     Input
                 1
        Radio Group                Input
            1
        Slider                     Input
            1
        Rating                     Input
        Vertical Container         Layout        New responsive horizontal layout container
        Horizontal Container       Layout        New responsive horizontal layout container
         Control                           Control Type     Notes
         Rich Text Editor                  Input
         Gallery                           List
         Icon                              Media
         Image                             Media
         Edit Form                         Input
         Display Form                      Input
         Code components                   Custom           Add code components to a custom page
         Canvas components (preview)       Custom           Add canvas components to a custom page
        1
          Control is a new modern control. The control was introduced for canvas apps in Teams. The
        control is based on Fluent UI library wrapped with Power Apps Component Framework.
           ） Important
           The Fluent UI (v8) controls that you add to a custom page are deprecated. Modern controls
           replace them. Upgrade your apps to modern controls to keep getting the latest design,
           performance, and accessibility improvements. For more information, see Upgrade Fluent UI
           controls to modern controls.
        Custom components support for custom page
        You can add both low-code (canvas components) and pro-code (code components) custom UX
        components to your environment and make them available for all makers. For custom page
        specific UX extensibility articles, go to add canvas components to a custom page for your model-
        driven app and add code components to a custom page for your model-driven app.
        In general, the low-code extensibility approach is simpler to build, test, and has a lower
        maintenance cost. We recommend evaluating canvas components first and then use code
        components only if there's a need for more complex and advanced customization.
        More information:
             Canvas component gallery
             Code components samples
         Code components community resources
     Enable responsive layout with container control
     Responsive custom page layouts are defined by building a hierarchy of Horizontal layout
     container and Vertical layout container controls. These controls are found in Power Apps Studio
     under Layout on the Insert tab.
     Set the minimum screen height and width on the App object to prevent page level scroll bars
     and use a vertical body scroll bar.
       PowerApps Formula
       MinScreenHeight=200
       MinScreenWidth=200
     Optionally, the custom page design size can be adjusted in Settings > Display with Size set to
     Custom. Then set the Width and Height to a more typical desktop custom page size like width
     1080 and height 768. Changing this setting after controls are added to the screen might cause
     some layout properties to reset.
     Set the topmost container to fill the entire space and resize based on available space.
       PowerApps Formula
       X=0
       Y=0
       Width=Parent.Width
       Height=Parent.Height
     Horizontal wrapping of a flexible height container
     To support pages adjusting from desktop down to a narrow width, enable these properties on a
     horizontal container with flexible height. Without these settings, the page clips the control when
     the page is narrow.
       PowerApps Formula
       Direction=Horizontal
       FlexibleHeight=true
       Justify=Stretch
       Align=Stretch
       VerticalOverflow=Scroll
       Wrap=True
      Child containers or controls directly under this container should be set to have a minimum width
      that allows the page to fit within a 300 pixel width. Consider the padding on the container or
      control as well as parent containers.
      Vertical wrapping of a flexible width container
      To support pages adjusting from desktop down to a narrow width, enable these properties on a
      vertical container with flexible width. Without these settings, the page clips the control when the
      page is narrow.
       PowerApps Formula
       Direction=Vertical
       FlexibleWidth=true
       Justify=Stretch
       Align=Stretch
       HorizontalOverflow=Scroll
       Wrap=True
      Child containers or controls directly under this container should be set to have a minimum height
      that allows the page to fit within a 300 pixel width. Consider the padding on the container or
      control as well as parent containers.
      More information: Building responsive layout.
      Vertical container with fixed header, flexible body, fixed footer
        1. On the Vertical Container, set Align (horizontal) to Stretch
        2. Insert three Horizontal Container controls within the parent Vertical Container.
        3. On the first and third child horizontal container controls, set Stretch height off and reduce
         height to the amount of space needed, such as Height=80.
      Horizontal container with two even child containers
        1. On the parent horizontal container, set Align (vertical) to Stretch.
        2. Insert two Vertical Container controls within the parent Horizontal Container.
      Styling custom page controls to align to model-driven
      app controls
      By creating the custom page from the modern app designer, these features use the default
      values.
          Theme for the custom page. Theme values for the controls used in a custom page are
          automatically set to match the default blue theme of the Unified Interface. This default
          theme is used both in the studio and at application runtime. Explicit theme selecting is
          removed from custom page authoring experience.
          Controls need to use a different font size, which is based on their position in the page
          hierarchy.
            ７ Note
            Custom page text has an upscaling of 1.33 so you need to divide the target FontSize
            by 1.33 to get the desired size.
                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                      Expand table
           Label Type           Target FontSize          FontSize to use
           Page title           17                       12.75
           Normal labels        14                       10.52
           Small labels         12                       9.02
          Primary and secondary button controls need the following styling changes:
          Primary buttons
            PowerApps Formula
            Color=RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
            Fill=RGBA(41,114,182,1)
            Height=35
            FontWeight=Normal
          Secondary buttons
         PowerApps Formula
         Color=RGBA(41,114,182,1)
         Fill=RGBA(255, 255, 255, 1)
         BorderColor=RGBA(41,114,182,1)
         Height=35
         FontWeight=Normal
     Tab navigation and keyboard accessibility for
     custom pages
     Custom pages follow the same tab navigation design that's used by the hosting model-driven
     app. Visually aligned semantic HTML structure helps users navigate the custom pages seamlessly
     when using a keyboard or a screen reader. Unlike stand-alone canvas apps, custom page
     controls, and other UX elements don't need explicit tab numbers assignments. Modern controls
     don't have a TabIndex property and utilize the semantic HTML structure for navigation.
     Various elements like controls, canvas and code components, containers, and so on, can be
     tabbed based on their position in the custom page layout. The tab navigation follows Z order
     navigation. Individual tab-stops inside larger grouping elements like components, containers are
     navigated first before the tab moves out to the next element in the document object model
     (DOM) tree.
     Here's an example navigation with the page containing controls, code, and canvas components
     and containers.
                                                                            
        ７ Note
        Overlapping controls and elements on the custom page don't have their DOM merged so
        tab stops can be out of sync from the visual layout. The same is true for the dynamic
        element positioning using formulas.
      See also
      Model-driven app custom page overview
      Using PowerFx in custom page
      Building responsive layout
      Add a custom page to your model-driven app
      Upgrade Fluent UI controls to modern controls
       Last updated on 08/10/2026
     Navigate to a custom page using client API
     This article provides examples of navigating from a model-driven app page to a custom page
     using Client API. Learn how to open custom pages as full-page, dialog, or pane views in model-
     driven apps.
     This article outlines the steps to use client API to open a custom page as a full-page, dialog, or
     pane. It provides examples of custom as a pageType value in navigateTo (Client API reference).
       ） Important
       Custom pages are a new feature with significant product changes. They currently have a
       number of known limitations outlined in Custom Page Known Issues.
     Find the logical name
     Each of the following client API examples takes the logical name of the custom page as the
     required parameter. The logical name is the Name value of the page in the solution explorer.
                                                      
     Open as an inline full page without context
     Within a model-driven app client API event handler, call the following code and update the
     name parameter to be the logical name of the page.
      JavaScript
      // Inline Page
      var pageInput = {
          pageType: "custom",
          name: "<logical name of the custom page>",
      };
      var navigationOptions = {
          target: 1
      };
      Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
          .then(
              function () {
                  // Called when page opens
              }
          ).catch(
              function (error) {
                  // Handle error
              }
          );
     Open as an inline full page with a record context
     This example uses the recordId parameter within the NavigateTo function to provide the
     custom page with the record to use.
      JavaScript
      // Inline Page
      var pageInput = {
          pageType: "custom",
          name: "<logical name of the custom page>",
          entityName: "<logical name of the table>",
          recordId: "<record id>",
      };
      var navigationOptions = {
          target: 1
      };
      Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
          .then(
              function () {
                  // Called when page opens
              }
          ).catch(
              function (error) {
                  // Handle error
              }
          );
     The Param function within the custom page retrieves the value and uses the Lookup function to
     retrieve the record.
      PowerApps Formula
      App.OnStart=Set(RecordItem, 
          If(IsBlank(Param("recordId")),
              First(<entity>),
              LookUp(<entity>, <entityIdField> = GUID(Param("recordId"))))
          )
      ） Important
      The recordId parameter must be a GUID because it updates the URL and an app start
      from the URL validates the recordId is a GUID.
     Open as a centered dialog
     Within a model-driven app client API event handler, call the following code and update the
     name parameter to be the logical name of the custom page. This mode supports the sizing
     parameters similar to the Main form dialogs.
      JavaScript
      // Centered Dialog
      var pageInput = {
          pageType: "custom",
          name: "<logical custom page name>",
      };
      var navigationOptions = {
          target: 2, 
          position: 1,
          width: {value: 50, unit:"%"},
          title: "<dialog title>"
      };
      Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
          .then(
              function () {
                  // Called when the dialog closes
              }
          ).catch(
              function (error) {
                  // Handle error
              }
          );
     Open as a side dialog
     Within a model-driven app client API event handler, call the following code and update the
     name parameter to be the logical name of the custom page.
      JavaScript
      // Side Dialog
      var pageInput = {
          pageType: "custom",
          name: "<logical page name>",
      };
      var navigationOptions = {
          target: 2, 
          position: 2,
          width: {value: 500, unit: "px"},
          title: "<dialog title>"
      };
      Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
          .then(
              function () {
                  // Called when the dialog closes
              }
          ).catch(
              function (error) {
                  // Handle error
              }
          );
     Open from a grid primary field link as a full page
     with record ID
     This example uses the recordId parameter within the navigateTo function to provide the
     custom page with the record to use. The Param function within the custom page retrieves the
     value and uses the Lookup function to retrieve the record.
     You can find a more complete example at Override the default open behavior of data rows in
     an entity-bound grid.
       1. Create a web resource of type JScript and update the name parameter to be the logical
        page name. Add the following code to the web resource.
         JavaScript
         function run(selectedItems)
         {
             let selectedItem = selectedItems[0];
             if (selectedItem) {     
                 let pageInput = {
                     pageType: "custom",
                     name: "<logical page name>",
                     entityName: selectedItem.TypeName,
                     recordId: selectedItem.Id,
                 };
                 let navigationOptions = {
                     target: 1
                 };
                 Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
                     .then(
                         function () {
                             // Handle success
                         }
                     ).catch(
                         function (error) {
                             // Handle error
                         }
                     );
             }
         }
      2. Customize the table ribbon CommandDefinition for OpenRecordItem to call the function
        earlier and include the CrmParameter with the value
        SelectedControlSelectedItemReferences.
         XML
             <CommandDefinition Id="Mscrm.OpenRecordItem">
                 <Actions>
                     <JavaScriptFunction FunctionName="run" 
         Library="$webresource:cr62c_OpenCustomPage">
                         <CrmParameter Value="SelectedControlSelectedItemReferences" />
                     </JavaScriptFunction>
                 </Actions>
             </CommandDefinition>
      3. In the custom page, override the App's OnStart property to use the Param function to get
        the recordId and lookup record.
         PowerApps Formula
         App.OnStart=Set(RecordItem, 
             If(IsBlank(Param("recordId")),
                 First(<entity>),
                 LookUp(<entity>, <entityIdField> = GUID(Param("recordId"))))
             )
         ７ Note
         After changing the OnStart property, you need to run OnStart from the App context
         menu. This function performs only once within a session.
      4. Then, the custom page can use the RecordItem parameter as a record. The following
        example shows how to use it in an EditForm.
         PowerApps Formula
         EditForm.Datasource=<datasource name>
         EditForm.Item=RecordItem
     Open from a selected record in editable grid as a
     centered dialog with record ID
     Use an editable grid to trigger the OnRecordSelect event when you want to perform an action
     after selecting a particular record in a view. This example uses the recordId parameter within
     the navigateTo function to provide the custom page with the record to use. The getId method
     in the GridEntity object retrieves the record ID. The Param function within the custom page
     retrieves the value and uses the lookup function to retrieve the record.
       1. Enable editable grid control in the table.
       2. Create a web resource of type JScript and update the name parameter to be the logical
        page name. Add the following code to the web resource.
         JavaScript
         function RunOnSelected(executionContext) {
         // Retrieves the record selected in the editable grid
         var selectedRecord = executionContext.getFormContext().data.entity;
         var Id = selectedRecord.getId().replace(/[{}]/g, ""); 
         // Centered Dialog
         var pageInput = {
             pageType: "custom",
             name: "<logical page name>",
             recordId: Id,
         };
         var navigationOptions = {
             target: 2,
             position: 1,
             width: { value: 50, unit: "%" },
             title: "<dialog title>"
         };
         Xrm.Navigation.navigateTo(pageInput, navigationOptions)
             .then(
                 function () {
                     // Called when the dialog closes
                 }
             ).catch(
                 function (error) {
                     // Handle error
                 }
                 );
              }
         3. In the custom page, override the App's OnStart property to use the Param function to get
           the recordId and lookup record.
             PowerApps Formula
             App.OnStart=Set(RecordItem, 
                 If(IsBlank(Param("recordId")),
                     First(<entity>),
                     LookUp(<entity>, <entityIdField> = GUID(Param("recordId"))))
                 )
             ７ Note
             After changing the OnStart property, you need to run OnStart from the App context
             menu. This function performs only once within a session.
         4. Then, the custom page can use the RecordItem parameter as a record. The following
           example shows how to use it in an EditForm.
             PowerApps Formula
             EditForm.Datasource=<datasource name>
             EditForm.Item=RecordItem
       Related articles
       Model-driven app custom page overview
       Add a custom page to your model-driven app
       navigateTo (client API reference)
        Last updated on 03/28/2026
       Use Power Fx in a custom page for your
       model-driven app
       Article • 01/23/2025
       This article outlines how the common Microsoft Power Fx functions work differently
       between a standalone canvas apps and a custom page. Functions work differently
       because a custom page is a component within the model-driven app. Other Microsoft
       Power Fx formulas continue to behave in the same way.
         ） Important
         Custom pages are a new feature with significant product changes and currently
         have a number of known limitations outlined in Custom Page Known Issues.
       Add notifications to a custom page
       A notification can be shown to the user in a custom page by calling the Notify function.
       When the notification messages appear, they're docked above the default page to stay
       visible until disabled. If a time-out interval is provided, the notification message
       disappears after the time out interval. We recommend that you don't use a time-out
       interval of 10, as this is no longer considered as a time-out interval. More information:
       Notify function.
         Power Fx
         Notify( "Custom page notification message" )
         Power Fx
         Notify( "Custom page notify warning message", NotificationType.Warning )
         Navigating to a custom page
         This section provides examples of navigating from a model-driven app form to a custom
         page, navigating from a custom page to other custom pages or model-driven app form
         using Power Fx.
         Navigating from a custom page
         The Navigate function allows users to navigate either from model-driven app forms or
         custom pages. This function is only applicable when the custom page is running within a
         model-driven app. During custom page authoring or previewing in canvas designer, this
         function has no effect.
         Navigate to another custom page
         To navigate from one custom page to another, pass the display name of the custom
         page as the first parameter.
          Power Fx
          Navigate( CustomPage2  )
         Navigate to the default view of the table
         To navigate to the default view of the table, pass table name as the first parameter.
          Power Fx
          Navigate( Accounts )
          ） Important
          Make sure you add the accounts Microsoft Dataverse table to the custom page
          before publishing and testing.
         Navigate to specific system view of the table
         To navigate to a specific system view of the table, pass the GUID of the view.
          Power Fx
          Navigate( 'Accounts (Views)'.'My Active Accounts' )
         Navigate to the default form of the table
         To navigate to the default form of the table, pass the record as the first parameter.
          Power Fx
          Navigate( Gallery1.Selected )
         Navigate to a specific form of a table
         To pass a Dataverse record to a specific form, pass the form name in the second
         parameter's Page attribute.
          Power Fx
          Navigate( 
            AccountGallery.Selected, 
            { Page: 'Accounts (Forms)'.Account  } )
         Navigate to a specific custom page with a record input
         To pass a Dataverse record to a specific custom page, pass the custom page name in the
         second parameter's Page attribute.
          Power Fx
          Navigate( 
            AccountGallery.Selected, 
            { Page: 'Account Record Page'  } )
         In the target custom page, the record is retrieved using Param function to get the etn
         and id values.
         Here's an example of loading the record into an EditForm control.
          Power Fx
          AccountEditForm.DataSource = Accounts
          AccountEditForm.Item = 
            LookUp( Accounts, accountid = GUID( Param("id") ) )
         Navigate to the default form of the table in create mode
         To navigate to the default form of the table in create mode, pass a Dataverse record
         created from the Defaults function. Defaults opens the default form with the record as a
         new record. The Defaults function takes the table name to create the record.
          Power Fx
          Navigate( Defaults( Accounts ) )
         Navigate to the default form of the table in create mode
         with field defaulted
         To navigate to a new record with some fields defaulted, use the Patch function to set
         fields on the default record for the table.
          Power Fx
          Navigate(
             Patch(
                Defaults(Accounts), { 'Account Name': "My company", Phone: "555-
          3423" } ) 
            )
         Navigate back to the prior page or close a dialog
         To navigate back to the last page or to close a dialog, the Back function is called in a
         custom page. The Back function closes the current page and returns to the last model-
         driven app or custom page in the model-driven app. If the custom page has multiple
         screens, go to the article Navigating back when custom page has multiple screens.
          Power Fx
          Back()
         Navigating back when custom page has multiple screens
        The default configuration for a custom page is to have one screen. In this case, the Back
        function call closes the custom page unless the custom page is the last in the page stack
        in model-driven app. The last page is kept open.
        An app maker can enable multiple screens in a custom page. These should be
        considered like full page controls within the custom page that can be stacked. Opening
        a custom page has no means of specifying the screen to use. When a custom page
        contains multiple screens, the maker is responsible for managing the screen stacking.
        Calling the Navigate function to a screen adds to the screen stack with the custom
        page. Each Back function call removes a screen from the screen stack. When there's only
        one screen on the screen stack, the custom page is closed.
        Enabling multiple screens
        By default a custom page uses a single screen to encourage separation of the app into a
        screen per page. Single screen can be switched by enabling Settings > Display > Enable
        multiple screens.
        Known issues
           The Navigate function doesn't have support for opening a model-driven app or
           custom page to a dialog. All navigation from a custom page opens inline.
           Navigate function doesn't support opening:
             A dashboard collection or a specific dashboard.
             A specific model-driven app form.
           A custom page can only open into the current session’s current app tab in a multi-
           session model-driven app.
        See also
        Navigating to a custom page using client API
              Model-driven app custom page overview
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Add canvas components to a custom
       page for your model-driven app
       Article • 06/01/2022
       This article outlines the use of low-code canvas components to build custom UX for a
       custom page by utilizing shared canvas component library capability. For code first
       custom UX extensibility, see Add code components to a custom page for your model-
       driven app.
        ） Important
        Custom pages are a new feature with significant product changes and currently
        have a number of known limitations outlined in Custom Page Known Issues.
        ７ Note
           Custom page currently supports a limited set of controls and only the
           currently supported controls should be used to create canvas components for
           the custom page.
           Modern controls are currently only supported with custom pages and not
           with standalone canvas apps. Make sure that the modern control
           experimental setting is used only for component libraries used with custom
           pages.
       Canvas components provide app makers the ability to create custom components in a
       low-code fashion. These components cannot only then be reused across custom pages
       and applications, but also can be centrally updated, packaged, and moved using
       Microsoft Dataverse solutions. More information: Create a component for canvas apps
       Since custom page authoring is limited to only one page, canvas components can only
       be authored inside a component library. This is different from the standalone canvas
       apps, which have the ability to create components at the app level.
       Create a canvas component using the
       component library
       You can create a new component library or edit an existing one either from the
       Solutions area or the Component Libraries tab in the Apps area. 
       Create a canvas component for use in a custom
       page
       This section explains how to create a canvas component that you can use in a custom
       page.
       Enable modern controls for the component library
       First, enable the Modern controls setting in the canvas app designer. To do this, go to
       File > Settings > Upcoming features > Experimental.
      Make sure that only the supported set of controls are used to create components for
      custom page.
      Create a canvas component
      Once the modern controls are enabled, you can now create desired components inside
      the library and publish them once the components are ready.
