     up as top-level identifiers. You can also reference control properties and other values from
     throughout your app.
     For example, consider a table of Products:
     To create this example table in your app, insert a button, set its OnSelect property to this
     formula, and then select the button (click it while you hold down the Alt key in Power Apps
     Studio):
      Power Fx
      Set( Products,
          Table(
              { Product: "Widget",    'Quantity Requested': 6,  'Quantity Available': 3 },
              { Product: "Gadget",    'Quantity Requested': 10, 'Quantity Available': 20 
      },
              { Product: "Gizmo",     'Quantity Requested': 4,  'Quantity Available': 11 
      },
              { Product: "Apparatus", 'Quantity Requested': 7,  'Quantity Available': 6 }
          )
      )
     To check if any of these products have more requested than is available, use this formula:
     Filter( Products, 'Quantity Requested' > 'Quantity Available' )
     The first argument to Filter is the table of records to work on. The second argument is a
     formula. Filter makes a record scope for evaluating this formula. The fields of each record are
     available, like Product, Quantity Requested, and Quantity Available. The result of the
     comparison decides if each record should be part of the function's result:
     You can add to this example by calculating how much of each product to order:
      Power Fx
      AddColumns( 
          Filter( Products, 'Quantity Requested' > 'Quantity Available' ), 
          "Quantity To Order", 'Quantity Requested' - 'Quantity Available'
      )
     Here, you add a calculated column to the result. AddColumns uses its own record scope to
     calculate the difference between what you requested and what is available.
     Finally, you can reduce the result table to just the columns that you want:
      Power Fx
      ShowColumns(
          AddColumns(
              Filter( Products, 'Quantity Requested' > 'Quantity Available' ),
              "Quantity To Order", 'Quantity Requested' - 'Quantity Available'
          ),
          "Product",
          "Quantity To Order"
      )
     In the preceding example, you used double quotes (") in some places and single quotes (') in
     other places. You need single quotes when you reference the value of an object, such as a field
     or table, and the name of the object contains a space. Use double quotes when you're not
     referencing the value of an object but instead talking about it. Use double quotes especially in
     situations where the object doesn't yet exist, as in the case of AddColumns.
     Disambiguation
     Field names you add with the record scope override the same names from elsewhere in the
     app. When this happens, you can still access values from outside the record scope by using the
     @ disambiguation operator:
        To access values from nested record scopes, use the @ operator with the name of the
        table you're operating upon, using this pattern:
        Table[@FieldName]
        To access global values, such as data sources, collections, and context variables, use the
        pattern [@ObjectName] (without a table designation).
     If the table you're operating upon is an expression, such as Filter( Table, ... ), you can't use the
     disambiguation operator. Only the innermost record scope can access fields from this table
     expression, by not using the disambiguation operator.
     For example, imagine having a collection X:
     You create this collection by using ClearCollect( X, [1, 2] ).
     And another collection Y:
     You create this collection by using ClearCollect( Y, ["A", "B"] ).
     In addition, define a context variable named Value with this formula: UpdateContext( {Value:
     "!"} )
     Let's put it all together. In this context, the following formula:
      Power Fx
      Ungroup(
          ForAll( X,
              ForAll( Y,
                  Y[@Value] & Text( X[@Value] ) & [@Value]
              )
          ),
          "Value"
      )
     produces this table:
     What's going on here? The outermost ForAll function defines a record scope for X, allowing
     access to the Value field of each record as it processes. You can access it by simply using the
     word Value or by using X[@Value].
     The innermost ForAll function defines another record scope for Y. Since this table also has a
     Value field defined, using Value here refers to the field in Y's record and no longer the one
     from X. To access X's Value field, you must use the longer version with the disambiguation
     operator.
     Since Y is the innermost record scope, accessing fields of this table doesn't require
     disambiguation, so you can use this formula with the same result:
      Power Fx
      Ungroup(
          ForAll( X,
              ForAll( Y,
                  Value & Text( X[@Value] ) & [@Value]
              )
          ),
          "Value"
      )
     All the ForAll record scopes override the global scope. The Value context variable you defined
     isn't available by name without the disambiguation operator. To access this value, use
     [@Value].
     Ungroup flattens the result because nested ForAll functions result in a nested result table.
     Single-column tables
     To operate on a single column from a table, use the ShowColumns function as in this example:
      Power Fx
      ShowColumns( Products, "Product" )
     This formula produces this single-column table:
      For a shorter alternative, specify Table.Column, which extracts the single-column table of just
      Column from Table. For example, this formula produces exactly the same result as using
      ShowColumns.
      Power Fx
      Products.Product
      Inline records
      Express records by using curly braces that contain named field values. For example, you can
      express the first record in the table at the start of this topic by using this formula:
      { Name: "Chocolate", Price: 3.95, 'Quantity on Hand': 12, 'Quantity on Order': 10 }
      You can also embed formulas within other formulas, as this example shows:
      { Name: First(Products).Name, Price: First(Products).Price * 1.095 }
      You can nest records by nesting curly braces, as this example shows:
      { 'Quantity': { 'OnHand': ThisItem.QuantOnHand, 'OnOrder': ThisItem.QuantOnOrder } }
      Enclose each column name that contains a special character, such as a space or a colon, in
      single quotes. To use a single quote within a column name, double it.
      Note that the value in the Price column doesn't include a currency symbol, such as a dollar
      sign. That formatting is applied when the value is displayed.
      Inline tables
      Create a table by using the Table function and a set of records. You can express the table at the
      start of this topic by using this formula:
      Power Fx
       Table( 
         { Name: "Chocolate", Price: 3.95, 'Quantity on Hand': 12, 'Quantity on Order': 
       10 },
         { Name: "Bread", Price: 4.95, 'Quantity on Hand': 34, 'Quantity on Order': 0 },
         { Name: "Water", Price: 4.95, 'Quantity on Hand': 10, 'Quantity on Order': 0 } 
       )
      You can also nest tables:
       Power Fx
       Table( 
         { Name: "Chocolate", 
           'Quantity History': Table( { Quarter: "Q1", OnHand: 10, OnOrder: 10 },
                                      { Quarter: "Q2", OnHand: 18, OnOrder: 0 } ) 
         }
       )
      Inline value tables
      Create single-column tables by specifying values in square brackets. The resulting table has a
      single column, named Value.
      For example, [ 1, 2, 3, 4 ] is equivalent to Table( { Value: 1 }, { Value: 2 }, { Value: 3
      }, { Value: 4 } ) and returns this table:
      Last updated on 01/14/2026
            Understand record references and
            polymorphic lookups in canvas apps
            Article • 12/16/2022
            When you wrote a research paper in school, you probably provided a list of your
            references at the end. You didn't include a copy of the actual background material you
            used but rather a web link, book title and author, or other information so that someone
            could track down the original source. You mixed different kinds of sources in a single
            list, newspaper articles next to audio recordings, each with their own specific details for
            a proper citation. For example, Wikipedia articles often include a long list of
            references   .
            In canvas apps, you often work with copies of records downloaded from data sources.
            You use the LookUp and Filter functions and the Gallery control's Selected property to
            identify the specific record that you want. All the records from Filter or Selected will be
            of the same table type, so you can use fields with a simple .Field notation. These copies
            often include reference information so you can use the Patch function to update the
            original source.
            Canvas apps also support record references. Much like a research-paper reference, a
            record reference refers to a record without including a complete copy of it. Such a
            reference can refer to a record in any table. Also like research-paper references, you can
            mix records from different tables in a single column.
            Many operations on record references are identical to working with records. You can
            compare record references to each other and to full records. You can set a record
            reference's value with the Patch function just as you would a lookup with a full record.
            There is one important usage difference: you can't directly access the fields of a record
            reference without first establishing to which table it refers. This is because canvas apps
            require that all types be known when you write formulas. Because you don't know the
            type of a record reference until the app is running, you can't use the simple .Field
            notation directly. You must first dynamically determine the table type with the IsType
            function and then use .Field notation on the result of the AsType function.
            Table type refers to the schema of each record in a table. Each table has a unique set of
            fields with different names and data types. Each record of the table inherits that
            structure; two records have the same table type if they come from the same table.
               ７ Note
               You can choose from many different connectors to connect to different types of
               data sources for canvas apps. However, when working with canvas apps inside
               Power Apps Studio, columns in Microsoft Dataverse are referred to as fields similar
               to all other data sources. Column is only used when referring to a column inside
               Dataverse. More information: Dataverse terminology updates
             Polymorphic lookups
             Microsoft Dataverse supports relationships between records. Each record in the
             Accounts table has a Primary Contact lookup column to a record in the Contacts table.
             The lookup can only refer to a record in Contacts and can't refer to a record in, say, the
             Teams table. That last detail is important because you always know what columns will be
             available for the lookup.
             Dataverse also supports polymorphic lookups, which can refer to a record from any
             table in a set. For example, the Owner column can refer to a record in the Users table or
             the Teams table. The same lookup column in different records could refer to records in
             different tables. In this case, you don't always know what columns will be available.
             Canvas record references were designed for working with polymorphic lookups in
             Dataverse. You can also use record references outside of this context, which is how the
             two concepts differ.
             In the next section, you'll start to explore these concepts by working with the Owner
             lookup.
             Show the columns of a record owner
             Every table in Dataverse includes an Owner column. This column can't be removed, you
             can't add another, and it always requires a value.
             To show that column in the Account table:
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. In the left pane bar, select Data > Tables.
                3. In the list of tables, select Account.
                4. In the upper-right corner, open the filter list (which is set to Default by default),
                  and then select All.
                5. Scroll down until the Owner column appears.
      This lookup column can refer to a record from either the Teams table or the Users table.
      Not every record in these tables has permission to be an Owner; check the supported
      roles if you run into a problem.
      This graphic shows a simple gallery of Accounts, where the Accounts table has been
      added to the app as a data source:
       ） Important
       Throughout this topic, the graphics show some names and other values that aren't
       part of the sample data that ships with Dataverse. The steps accurately
       demonstrate how to configure controls for a particular result, but your experience
       will vary based on the data for your organization.
      To show the owner of each account in the gallery, you might be tempted to use the
      formula ThisItem.Owner.Name. However, the name field in the Team table is Team
      Name, and the name field in the User table is Full Name. The app can't know which type
       of lookup you're working with until you run the app, and it can vary between records in
       the Accounts table.
       You need a formula that can adapt to this variance. You also need to add the data
       sources for the table types that Owner could be (in this case, Users and Teams). Add
       these three data sources to your app:
       With these data sources in place, use this formula to display the name of either a user or
       a team:
         Power Fx
         If( IsType( ThisItem.Owner, Teams ),
             "Team: " & AsType( ThisItem.Owner, Teams ).'Team Name',
             "User: " & AsType( ThisItem.Owner, Users ).'Full Name' )
       In this formula, the IsType function tests the Owner field against the Teams table. If it's
       of that table type, the AsType function casts it to a Team record. At this point, you can
       access all the fields of the Teams table, including Team Name, by using the .Field
       notation. If IsType determines that the Owner isn't a record in the Teams table, that field
       must be a record in the Users table because the Owner field is required (can't be blank).
       To use any fields of a record reference, you must first use the AsType function to cast it
       to a specific table type. You can't access fields directly from the Owner field because the
       system doesn't know what table type you want to use.
       The AsType function returns an error if the Owner field doesn't match the table type
       being requested, so you can use the IfError function to simplify this formula. First, turn
       on the experimental feature Formula-level error management:
       Then replace the previous formula with this one:
         Power Fx
         IfError(
             "Team: " & AsType( ThisItem.Owner, Teams ).'Team Name',
             "User: " & AsType( ThisItem.Owner, Users ).'Full Name' )
       Filter based on an owner
       Congratulations—you've finished the hardest aspect of working with a record reference.
       Other use cases are more straightforward because they don't access fields of the record.
       As a case in point, take filtering, which you'll explore in this section.
       Add a Combo box control above the gallery, and set these properties of the new
       control:
          Items: Users
          SelectMultiple: false
       To filter the gallery by a specific user selected from this combo box, set the gallery's
       Items property to this formula:
         Power Fx
         Filter( Accounts, Owner = ComboBox1.Selected )
         ） Important
         The instructions in this topic are accurate if you follow the steps exactly. However,
         any formula that refers to a control by its name fails if the control has a different
         name. If you delete and add a control of the same type, the number at the end of
         the control's name changes. For any formula that shows an error, confirm that it
         contains the correct names of all controls.
       You don't need to use IsType or AsType because you're comparing record references to
       other record references or to full records. The app knows the table type of
       ComboBox1.Selected because it's derived from the Users table. Accounts for which the
       owner is a team won't match the filter criterion.
       You can get a little fancier by supporting filtering by either a user or a team.
         1. Make some space near the top of the screen by resizing the gallery and moving
          the combo box, insert a Radio control above the gallery, and then set these
          properties for the new control:
             Items: [ "All", "Users", "Teams" ]
             Layout: Layout.Horizontal
         2. For the Combo box control, set this property (if the combo box disappears, select
          Users in the radio control):
             Visible: Radio1.Selected.Value = "Users"
         3. Copy and paste the Combo box control, move the copy directly over the original,
          and then set these properties for the copy:
             Items: Teams
             Visible: Radio1.Selected.Value = "Teams"
          The app will display only one combo box at a time, depending on the state of the
          radio control. Because they're directly above one another, they'll appear to be the
          same control that changes its contents.
         4. Finally, set the Items property of the Gallery control to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Filter( Accounts,
                Radio1.Selected.Value = "All"
                Or (Radio1.Selected.Value = "Users" And Owner = ComboBox1.Selected)
                Or (Radio1.Selected.Value = "Teams" And Owner = 
            ComboBox1_1.Selected)
            )
      With these changes, you can show all records or filter them based on either a user or a
      team:
      The formula is fully delegable. The portion that's comparing the radio-button values is a
      constant across all records and is evaluated before the rest of the filter is sent to
      Dataverse.
      If you want to filter on the type of the owner, you can use the IsType function, but it's
      not yet delegable.
       Update the owner by using Patch
       You can update the Owner field in the same manner as any other lookup. To set the
       currently selected account's owner to the first team:
         Power Fx
         Patch( Accounts, Gallery1.Selected, { Owner: First( Teams ) } )
       This approach doesn't differ from a normal lookup because the app knows the type of
       First( Teams ). If you want the first user instead, replace that portion with First( Users ).
       The Patch function knows that the Owner field can be set to either of these two table
       types.
       To add this capability to the app:
         1. In the Tree view pane, select the Radio control and the two Combo box controls at
          the same time.
         2. On the ellipsis menu, select Copy these items.
       3. On the same menu, select Paste.
       4. Move the copied controls to the right of the gallery.
         5. Select the copied Radio control, and then change these properties:
             Items: [ "Users", "Teams" ]
             Default: If( IsType( Gallery1.Selected.Owner, Users ), "Users", "Teams" )
         6. In the Radio control, select Users so that the Combo box control that lists users is
          visible.
         7. Select the visible Combo box control, and then set the DefaultSelectedItems
          property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            If( IsType( Gallery1.Selected.Owner, Users ),
                AsType( Gallery1.Selected.Owner, Users ),
                Blank()
            )
         8. In the Radio control, select Teams so that the Combo box control that lists teams
          is visible.
         9. Select the Radio control to take selection away from the now-invisible Combo box
          control for users.
        10. Select the visible Combo box control for teams, and then set its
          DefaultSelectedItems property to this formula:
            Power Fx
            If( IsType( Gallery1.Selected.Owner, Teams ),
                AsType( Gallery1.Selected.Owner, Teams ),
                Blank()
            )
        11. Insert a Button control, move it under the Combo box control, and then set the
          button's Text property to "Patch Owner".
        12. Set the OnSelect property of the button to this formula:
            Power Fx
            Patch( Accounts, Gallery1.Selected,
                { Owner: If( Radio1_1.Selected.Value = "Users",
                             ComboBox1_2.Selected,
                             ComboBox1_3.Selected ) } )
       The copied Radio and Combo box controls show the owner for the currently selected
       account in the gallery. With the same controls, you can set the owner of the account to
       any team or user by selecting the button:
       Show the owner by using a form
       You can show an Owner field inside a form by adding a custom card. As of this writing,
       you can't change the value of the field with a form control.
        1. Insert an Edit form control, and then resize and move it to the lower-right corner.
        2. On the Properties tab near the right side of the screen, open the Data source list,
         and then select Accounts.
        3. Set the form's Item property to Gallery1.Selected.
       4. On the Properties tab near the right side of the screen, select Edit fields.
       5. In the Fields pane, select the ellipsis, and then select Add a custom card.
        The new card appears at the bottom of the form control.
       6. Resize the card as needed to show all the text.
         7. Insert a Label control into the custom card, and then set the label's Text property
          to the formula that you used in the gallery:
            Power Fx
            If( IsType( ThisItem.Owner, Teams ),
                "Team: " & AsType( ThisItem.Owner, Teams ).'Team Name',
                "User: " & AsType( ThisItem.Owner, Users ).'Full Name' )
       For each selection in the gallery, more fields of the account, including the record's
       owner, appear in the form. If you change the owner by using the Patch button, the form
       control also shows that change.
       Show the columns of a customer
      In Dataverse, the Customer lookup column is another polymorphic lookup that's very
      similar to Owner.
      Owner is limited to one per table, but tables can include zero, one, or more Customer
      lookup column. The Contacts system table includes the Company Name column, which
      is a Customer lookup column.
      You can add more Customer lookup columns to a table by selecting the Customer data
      type for a new column.
      A Customer lookup field can refer to a record from either the Accounts table or the
      Contacts table. You'll use the IsType and AsType functions with these tables, so now is a
      good time to add them as data sources (you can leave Teams and Users in place).
              The treatment of the Customer and Owner fields is so similar that you can literally copy
              the app (File > Save as, and then specify a different name) and make these simple
              replacements:
                                                                                                 ﾉ
                                                                                                     Expand table
                Location                             Owner sample                 Customer sample
                Throughout                           Owner                        'Customer Name'
                Throughout                           Users                        Accounts
                Throughout                           Teams                        Contacts
                Gallery's Items property             Accounts                     Contacts
                Form's Items property                Accounts                     Contacts
                The first argument of Patch          Accounts                     Contacts
                in the button's OnSelect property
                Filter radio's Items property        [ "All", "Users", "Teams" ]  [ "All", "Accounts", "Contacts" ]
                Patch radio's Items property         [ "Users", "Teams" ]         [ "Accounts", "Contacts" ]
                Combo box's Visible property         "Users" and "Teams"          "Accounts" and "Contacts"
              For example, the new gallery should have this Items property:
                 Power Fx
                 Filter( Contacts,
                     Radio1.Selected.Value = "All"
                     Or (Radio1.Selected.Value = "Accounts" And 'Company Name' = 
                 ComboBox1.Selected)
                     Or (Radio1.Selected.Value = "Contacts" And 'Company Name' = 
                 ComboBox1_1.Selected)
                 )
       Two important differences between Customer and Owner require an update to the
       formulas inside the gallery and the form:
         1. One-to-many relationships between Accounts and Contacts take precedence
          when you refer to these table types by name. Instead of Accounts, use
          [@Accounts]; instead of Contacts, use [@Contacts]. By using the global
          disambiguation operator, you ensure that you're referring to the table type in
          IsType and AsType. This problem exists only in the record context of the gallery
          and form controls.
         2. The Owner field must have a value, but Customer fields can be blank. To show the
          correct result without a type name, test for this case with the IsBlank function, and
          show an empty text string instead.
       Both of these changes are in the same formula, which appears in the custom card in the
       form, as well as in the Text property of the gallery's label control:
         Power Fx
         If( IsBlank( ThisItem.'Company Name' ), "",
             IsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Accounts ),
                 "Account: " & AsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Accounts ).'Account 
         Name',
             "Contact: " & AsType( ThisItem.'Company Name', Contacts ).'Full Name'
         )
       With these changes, you can view and change the Company Name field in the Contacts
       table.
       Understand Regarding lookup columns
       The Regarding lookup column differs a little from those that you've already worked with
       in this topic. You'll start by applying the patterns that this topic described earlier, and
       then you'll learn other tricks.
       You can start simply with the Faxes table. This table has a polymorphic Regarding
       lookup column, which can refer to Accounts, Contacts, and other tables. You can take
       the app for Customers and modify it for Faxes.
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
             Location                                  Customer sample        Faxes sample
             Throughout                                'Customer Name'        Regarding
             Gallery's Items property                  Contacts               Faxes
             Form's Items property                     Contacts               Faxes
             The first argument of Patch               Contacts               Faxes
             in the button's OnSelect property
            Again, you'll need to add a data source: this time for Faxes. On the View tab, select Data
            sources:
            An important difference for Regarding is that it isn't limited to Accounts and Contacts.
            In fact, the list of tables is extensible with custom tables. Most of the app can
            accommodate this point without modification, but you must update the formula for the
            label in the gallery and the form:
              Power Fx
              If( IsBlank( ThisItem.Regarding ), "",
                  IsType( ThisItem.Regarding, Accounts ),
                      "Account: " & AsType( ThisItem.Regarding, Accounts ).'Account Name',
                  IsType( ThisItem.Regarding, Contacts ),
                      "Contacts: " & AsType( ThisItem.Regarding, Contacts ).'Full Name',
                  ""
              )
       After you make these changes, you work with the Regarding lookup just as you did the
       Owner and Customer lookups.
       Understand Regarding relationships
       Regarding differs from Owner and Customer because the former involves a many-to-
       one relationship. By definition, a reverse, one-to-many relationship allows you to write
       First( Accounts ).Faxes.
       Let's back up and look at the table definitions. In Dataverse, tables such as Faxes, Tasks,
       Emails, Notes, Phone Calls, Letters, and Chats are designated as activities. You can also
       create your own custom activity tables. When you view or create an activity table, its
       settings appear under More settings.
      Other tables can be related to an activity table if they're enabled as an activity task in
      the table's settings. Accounts, Contacts, and many other standard tables are so
      designated (again, under More settings).
      All activity tables and activity-task tables have an implied relationship. If you change the
      filter to All at the top of the screen, select the Faxes table, and then select the
      Relationships tab, all tables that can be a target of a Regarding lookup appear.
      If you show the relationships for the Accounts table, all the tables that can be a source
      of a Regarding lookup field appear.
      What does it all mean?
        When you write formulas, you must consider that the list of activity tables isn't
        fixed, and you can create your own. The formula must appropriately handle an
        activity table that you didn't expect.
        Activity tasks and activities have a one-to-many relationship. You can easily ask for
        all faxes that relate to an account.
      To explore this concept in the app:
       1. Add another screen.
       2. Insert a gallery control, resize it, and then move it to the left side of the screen.
       3. On the Properties tab near the right side of the screen, set the gallery's Items to
        Accounts.
       4. Set the gallery's layout to Title, and then set the title field to Account Name.
       5. Add a second gallery, resize it, and then move it to the right side of the screen.
       6. Set the new gallery's Items property to Gallery2.Selected.Faxes.
        This step returns the filtered list of faxes for a given account.
       7. Set the gallery's layout to Title and subtitle, and then set the title field to show the
        Subject field (which might be lowercase subject).
      As you select an item in the list of accounts, the list of faxes shows faxes for only that
      account.
       Activity table
       As the previous section describes, you can show all the faxes for an account. However,
       you can also show all the activities for an account, including faxes, email messages,
       phone calls, and other interactions.
       For the latter scenario, you use the Activity table. You can show this table by turning on
       All in the upper-right corner to remove the filter from the list of tables.
       The Activity table is special. Whenever you add a record to the Faxes table, the system
       also creates a record in the Activity table with the columns that are common across all
       activity tables. Of those columns, Subject is one of the most interesting.
       You can show all activities by changing only one line in the previous example. Replace
        Gallery2.Selected.Faxes with Gallery2.Selected.Activities.
       Records are coming from the Activity table, but you can nevertheless use the IsType
       function to identify which kind of activity they are. Again, before you use IsType with a
       table type, you must add the data source.
       By using this formula, you can show the record type in a label control within the gallery:
         Power Fx
         If( IsType( ThisItem, Faxes] ), "Fax",
             IsType( ThisItem, 'Phone Calls' ), "Phone Call",
             IsType( ThisItem, 'Email Messages' ), "Email Message",
             IsType( ThisItem, Chats ), "Chat",
             "Unknown"
         )
       You can also use AsType to access the fields of the specific type. For example, this
       formula determines the type of each activity and, for phone calls, shows the phone
       number and call direction from the Phone Numbers table:
         Power Fx
         If( IsType( ThisItem, Faxes ), "Fax",
             IsType( ThisItem, 'Phone Calls' ),
                "Phone Call: " &
                AsType( ThisItem, 'Phone Calls' ).'Phone Number' &
                " (" & AsType( ThisItem, 'Phone Calls' ).Direction & ")",
             IsType( ThisItem, 'Email Messages' ), "Email Message",
             IsType( ThisItem, Chats ), "Chat",
             "Unknown"
         )
       As a result, the app shows a complete list of activities. The Subject field appears for all
       types of activities, whether the formula takes them into account or not. For types of
       activities that you know about, you can show their type names and type-specific
       information about each activity.
       Notes table
       So far, all of the Regarding examples have been based on activities, but the Notes table
       represents another case.
       When you create a table, you can enable attachments.
       If you select the check box for enabling attachments, you'll create a Regarding
       relationship with the Notes table, as this graphic shows for the Accounts table:
       Other than this difference, you use the Regarding lookup in the same manner in which
       you use activities. Tables that are enabled for attachments have a one-to-many
       relationship to Notes, as in this example:
       First( Accounts ).Notes
        ７ Note
        As of this writing, the Regarding lookup isn't available for the Notes table. You
        can't read or filter based on the Regarding column, and you can't set the column
        by using Patch.
        However, the reverse Notes one-to-many relationship is available, so you can filter
        a list of notes for a record that's enabled for attachments. You can also use the
        Relate function to add a note to a record's Notes table, but the note must be
        created first, as in this example:
                 Relate( ThisItem.Notes, Patch( Notes, Defaults( Notes ), { Title: "A new note"
                } ) )
              Activity parties
              As of this writing, canvas apps don't support activity parties.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Tutorial: Customize a gallery in Power
       Apps
       Article • 03/03/2023
       In this tutorial, you'll customize a list of records, called a gallery, and make other
       changes in an app that was generated automatically in Microsoft Power Apps. Users can
       manage data in the app even if you don't make these changes, but the app will be
       easier to use if you customize it for your organization's needs.
       For example, the gallery for this tutorial matches this graphic by default. The email
       address is featured more prominently than other types of data, and users can sort and
       filter the gallery based on text in that address:
       However, your users might be more interested in the account name more than the email
       address, so you'll reconfigure the gallery to highlight, sort, and filter based on the key
       data for your organization. In addition, you'll change the title of the default screen to
       differentiate it from the other screens in the app.
             You'll also add a scroll bar so that users who don't have touch screens or mouse wheels
             can browse the entire gallery.
              ＂Change the layout of the gallery
              ＂Change the type of data that appears in the gallery
              ＂Change the columns by which users can sort and search the data
              ＂Change the screen title
              ＂Show a scroll bar
             This tutorial starts with an app that was generated from a specific data source. However,
             the same concepts apply to any app that you generate in Power Apps, whether from a
             list created using Microsoft Lists, a SharePoint library, an Excel table, or some other data
             source.
             If you're not signed up for Power Apps, sign up for free   before you start.
             Prerequisites
             Generate an app from the Accounts table of Microsoft Dataverse.
             Open the generated app
                1. Sign in to Power Apps   , and then select Apps near the left edge.
                2. Find the app that you generated, select the ellipsis icon (...) for it, and then select
                  Edit.
        3. If the Welcome to Power Apps Studio dialog box appears, select Skip.
       Change the layout
        1. In the left navigation pane, select BrowseGallery1.
         When the gallery is selected, a selection box with handles surrounds it.
        2. On the Properties tab of the right-hand pane, open the list of options under
         Layout, and then select the option that shows only a title.
        3. Next to Fields, select Edit, and then select the down arrow for the title box.
         The name of this control will end in a numeral, such as Title1, but the numeral
         might differ based on other actions you might have taken.
        4. In the list of options, select Account name, and then close the Data pane.
         The gallery shows the name of each account.
       Change sort and search columns
        1. Select the gallery as the previous section describes.
        2. Near the upper-left corner, confirm that the property list shows Items.
          The value of this property appears in the formula bar. You set this property to
          specify not only the data source for the gallery but also the columns by which
          users can sort and search the data.
        3. Copy this formula, and then paste it in the formula bar.
          SortByColumns(Search(Accounts, TextSearchBox1.Text, "name"), "name",
          If(SortDescending1, Descending, Ascending))
          By using this formula, you ensure that:
            If a user types one or more characters in the search bar, the gallery shows
            only those account names that contain the text that the user typed.
            If a user selects the sort icon, the gallery is sorted alphabetically by account
            name in either ascending or descending order, depending on how many
            times the user selects the icon.
          For more information about these and other functions, see the formula reference.
       Test sorting and searching
         1. Open Preview mode by pressing F5 (or by selecting the play button near the
          upper-right corner).
         2. Near the upper-right corner of the browse screen, select the sort icon one or more
          times to change the alphabetical sort order between ascending and descending.
         3. In the search box, type k to show only those account names that contain the letter
          that you typed.
         4. Remove all text from the search bar, and then close Preview mode by pressing Esc
          (or by selecting the close icon near the upper-right corner).
       Change the screen title
         1. Select the title of the screen by clicking or tapping it.
         2. Ensure that the property list shows Text and then, in the formula bar, replace
          Accounts with Browse (retaining the double quotation marks).
          The screen reflects your change.
       Show a scrollbar
       If your users might have neither touch screens nor mouse wheels, configure the gallery
       to show a scrollbar when the user hovers over it with the mouse. That way, users can
       show all accounts even if the screen can't show them all at once.
         1. Select the gallery as the first procedure describes.
                 2. Set the gallery's Show scrollbar property to true.
              Next steps
              In this tutorial, you've customized the gallery and made other changes to the default
              screen for browsing records in a generated app. You can also customize the default
              screens for displaying details and creating or updating accounts. As the browse screen
              contains a gallery, the other two screens in the app contain forms. You can change, for
              example, which types of data the forms show and in which order.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
             Customize forms in canvas apps
             Article • 03/03/2023
             In a canvas app, customize a Display form control and an Edit form control so that they
             show the data that matters most and in the most intuitive order to help users easily
             understand and update the data.
             Each form comprises one or more cards, each of which shows data from a particular
             column in the data source. By following the steps in this topic, you can specify which
             cards appear in a form and move cards up and down within a form.
             If you're unfamiliar with canvas-pps, see What are canvas apps?.
             Prerequisites
             Generate an app from the Microsoft Dataverse, and then customize the gallery in that
             app.
             Show and hide cards
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  , and then open the app that you generated and
                  customized.
                2. In the left navigation bar, type or paste D in the search bar to filter the list of
                  elements, and then select DetailForm1.
                3. On the Properties tab of the right-hand pane, select Edit fields to open the Fields
                  pane.
        4. Hide a field, such as Description, by hovering over it, selecting the ellipsis (...) that
          appears, and then selecting Remove.
        5. Show a field by selecting Add field, typing or pasting the first few letters of the
          field's name in the search box, selecting the field's check box, and then selecting
          Add.
       Reorder the cards
        1. In the Fields pane, drag the Account Name field to the top of the list of fields.
         The cards in DetailForm1 reflect the change.
        2. (optional) Reorder the other cards into this sequence:
            Account Name
            Number of Employees
            Annual Revenue
            Main Phone
            Address 1: Street 1
            Address 1: Street 2
            Address 1: City
            Address 1: ZIP/Postal Code
        3. In the left navigation bar, type or paste Ed in the search bar, and then select
         EditForm1 to select it.
        4. Repeat the steps in the previous procedure and this one so that the fields in
         EditForm1 match those in DetailForm1.
      Run the app
        1. In the left navigation bar, type or paste Br in the search bar, and then select
         BrowseScreen1 to select it.
        2. Open Preview mode by pressing F5 (or by selecting the Preview icon near the
          upper-right corner).
        3. In the upper-right corner, select the plus icon to add a record in EditScreen1.
        4. Add whatever data you want, and then select the checkmark icon in the upper-
          right corner to save your changes and return to BrowseScreen1.
        5. Select the arrow for the item that you just created to show details about that item
          in DetailScreen1.
        6. In the upper-right corner, select the edit icon to update the record in EditScreen1.
        7. Change the information in one or more fields, and then select the check mark in
          the upper-right corner to save your changes and return to DetailScreen1.
        8. Near the upper-right corner, select the trash-can icon to delete the record that you
          just updated and to return to BrowseScreen1.
        9. Close Preview mode by pressing Esc (or by selecting the close icon near the upper-
          left corner).
       Next steps
          Save and publish your app.
                    Customize a card in your app.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Customize a card in a canvas app
       Article • 03/03/2023
       Perform basic customization (without unlocking a card) by, for example, changing its
       control. Perform advanced customization by unlocking the card and, for example,
       adding a control that isn't available for that card by default.
       For an overview, see Understand data cards.
       Prerequisites
          Learn how to add and configure controls.
          You can review this topic for general concepts only, or you can follow it step by
          step if you first complete the procedures in these topics:
            1. Generate an app.
            2. Customize its gallery.
            3. Customize its forms.
       Customize a locked card
       In this procedure, you'll replace a Text-input control with a Slider control without
       unlocking the card.
         1. In the app that you generated and customized, select EditForm1 in the left
          navigation bar, and then select Edit fields on the Properties tab of the right-hand
          pane.
         2. In the list of fields, select the down arrow for Number of Employees, and then
          open the list under Control type.
        3. Select Edit Slider.
          The screen reflects your change.
       Unlock and customize a card
       In this procedure, you'll unlock a card and update the Max property of the Slider control
       that you just added.
        1. In EditForm1, select the Slider control in the Number of Employees card.
        2. On the Advanced tab of the right-hand pane, select the lock icon to unlock the
          card.
        3. Set the Max property of the Slider control to 10,000.
          The Slider control shows a more accurate value.
       Next steps
       Now that you have a basic understanding of how to generate an app and customize a
       gallery, a form, and a card, you can build your own app from scratch.
     Understand Power Apps Studio
     Power Apps Studio is the integrated development environment where you design, build, and
     manage canvas apps. Learn about its key components including the command bar, formula
     bar, canvas, and authoring tools to create effective business applications.
     Overview of Power Apps Studio
                                                 
      1. Power Apps Studio modern command bar: Dynamic command bar that shows a different
       set of commands based on the control selected.
      2. App actions: Options to view properties, add comments, run the app checker, share,
       preview, save, or publish the app.
      3. Properties list: List of properties for the selected object, such as fill or height.
      4. Formula bar: Compose or edit a formula for the selected property with one or more
       functions.
      5. App authoring menu: Selection pane to switch between data sources and allows you to
       insert options.
      6. App authoring options: This pane reveals the corresponding authoring feature when a
       feature is selected from the app authoring menu.
      7. Canvas/screen: Primary canvas for composing the app structure.
       8. Properties pane: Properties list for the selected object in Tree view.
       9. Settings: Configure your app in settings.
       10. Screen selector: Switch between different screens in your app. Tree view selections display
         here.
       11. Change canvas screen size: Change the display size of the canvas as you author your app.
      Let's understand each option in Power Apps Studio in detail.
      1 – Power Apps Studio modern command bar
      The command bar provides Power Apps Studio options. These options are relevant to the
      current session and app-related settings.
                                                          
      Modern command bar
      The modern command bar displays the relevant set of commands depending on the control
      that you select. For example, if you select an item to insert like a text label, you see the modern
      command bar change to accommodate your selection. The bar now has font type, size, color,
      and other text label controls.
                                                          
      The command bar changes when you select one of the following controls or objects:
       1. App object
       2. Screen
       3. Button
       4. Shape
       5. Icon
       6. Blank form
       7. Form with data
       8. Blank gallery
      9. Gallery with data
     10. Label
     11. Text input
     12. Date picker
    When you select more than one type of control, the command bar shows the common
    commands between the selected controls.
    Back
    Takes you back to the build hub, closing the current Power Apps Studio session.
    Undo and redo
       Undo: Undo the last action.
       Redo: Repeat the last action.
     ７ Note
     You can't undo or redo data operations, such as insert or delete a data source.
    Cut, copy, and paste
       Cut: Cut the selection, and store it in the clipboard.
       Copy: Copy the selection, and store it in the clipboard.
       Paste: Paste the last cut or copied selection from the clipboard.
    Insert
      You can access the Insert menu from the command bar and from the app authoring menu.
      Insert shows all the popular objects or controls that you can add on the selected screen in your
      canvas app. You can also expand other choices or use the components option to insert controls
      from a component library.
      To insert controls on the canvas, drag the control to the canvas or select the control.
      Popular controls to insert
                                                   ﾉ
                                                     Expand table
      Name     Description
      Form     Display, edit, or create a record in a data source.
      Input >  A control that the user can select to interact with the app.
      Button
           Name            Description
           Input > Date    A control that the user can select to specify a date.
           picker
           Input > Text    A text box that allows user input.
           input
           Shapes >        A rectangular shape to configure the canvas appearance.
           Rectangle
           Text            A box that displays data such as text, numbers, dates, or currency.
           Vertical        A control that you can add other controls to and display a set of data. For example, list
           gallery         items made up of an image, title, and description is contained within a vertical gallery.
          For more information about the controls you can insert, including their properties and
          definitions, see Controls and properties in canvas apps.
          Add data
          Add, refresh, or remove data sources from your canvas app. You can add one or more
          connections by using data sources.
    From the Add data menu, you can:
       Select any other existing tables from the current environment.
       Search for and select a connector, such as SharePoint or SQL Server.
    Connectors
    In addition to data stored within tables, many connectors are available to interact with data in
    popular software as a service (SaaS), services, and systems.
    To choose other connectors such as SharePoint, OneDrive, or SQL Server, enter text in the data
    source search box or select from the list of connectors.
    For more information, see List of all Power Apps connectors.
    New screen layouts
    Add a new screen to your app from the New screen option in the command bar.
    You can also add a new screen from the tree view.
      1. From the Screens tab, select + New screen.
      2. Select from the list of available screen layouts such as Sidebar, new layouts in preview
       such as Header and form, or templates like Email.
    Background color
    Select a background color for a screen. You can select from the list of standard colors or select
    the Custom tab and choose your own color.
    Background image
    Select Upload to upload images to set as the background image.
    Settings
    Configure the app's settings from the General, Display, Updates, or Support tab.
                                            
    General
       Edit the app Name and Description.
       Add or update the App icon. Add a custom icon by selecting + Add image.
       Select an Icon background fill or Icon fill color.
       Toggle Auto save to save every two minutes automatically.
       Configure offline use.
       Set your Data row limit.
       Include debug information when you publish.
       Enable autocreation of environment variables.
       Enable the App.OnStart property.
    To edit the app Name, go to the General tab in Settings.
    Display
       Select the Orientation and screen Size.
       Scale to fit: Scales the app to fit available space.
       Lock aspect ratio: Locks the height and width ratio.
       Lock orientation: Maintains app orientation when device rotates.
       Show mobile device notifications area: Displays notifications at the top of the screen.
    For more information, see Change screen size and orientation.
    Updates
    Configure advanced settings for the app that include features under preview, experimental, or
    retired features.
    For more information, see Understand experimental, preview, and retired features in Power
    Apps.
    Support
    Access current Power Apps Studio information such as environment, authoring version, session
    ID, and session details. This information is useful for Microsoft Support sessions.
    2 – App actions
    To perform app-specific actions, use the options such as Properties, Comments, App checker,
    Share, Preview the app, Save, and Publish.
         Share
         When you select the Share app action, a new window opens where you can share the app. You
         can share with other users or add them as co-owners of your app. For more information, see
         Share an app.
             Tip
            You must save the app before you can share it.
         App checker
         Select App checker to run a check.
         For more information, see PowerApps checker now includes App checker results for canvas
         apps in solutions   .
                                                        
     Comments
     Comments are notes associated with items in your app. Use comments to help your team
     review the app and provide feedback, or provide additional information on implementation
     details in your app.
     Preview
     Select Preview the app to go into preview mode. Here you can view and interact with the
     current version of the app.
     Save
     You can save your app in different ways, such as Save, Save with version notes, Save as, or
     Download a copy. The save options dropdown is located next to the Save app action.
     Save options include:
        Save: Saves recent and unsaved changes you made to the app. Each time you save
        changes, a new version is created.
       Save with version notes: Save and add notes about your updates.
       Save as: Duplicate the app by saving it with a different name.
       Download a copy: Download a local copy of the app.
    Publish
    Select Publish to publish the app’s current version. For more information, see Save and publish
    canvas apps.
                                            
    3 – Properties list
    When you select an object in your canvas, you can choose one of the object's properties from
    its properties list. For a complete list of all possible properties, see All properties.
    4 – Formula bar
    The formula bar lets you add, edit, or remove functions of a property from your selected
    object. For example, select the app screen to update the background color by using the RGBA
    function.
    The formula bar is IntelliSense-enabled. When you start entering text that matches one or
    more functions, the formula bar shows a list of functions.
                                            
    When you select a function, the formula bar shows inline function help and highlights help text
    relevant to the cursor position.
                                        
    If a formula returns an error, you can view the error details in App checker or directly from the
    app view in the canvas.
                                            
    Similarly, you find help when working with complex functions, nested functions, or when
    correcting a formula syntax.
    For a complete list of all canvas app functions, see Formula reference - Power Apps.
    5 – App authoring menu
    Switch between various authoring options while working with the app.
       Tree view: Shows a tree view of all screens and controls in the current app.
       Insert: Add different controls to the screen.
       Data: Add data and other connectors, such as tables that connect to your app.
       Variables: Work with variables and collections while editing your app.
       Search: Select to search for media, formulas, text, and more in your app.
       Themes: Choose a colored theme for the Power Apps UI.
       Media: Insert or remove media from the app.
       Power Automate: Add a flow by using the Power Automate pane.
       Advanced tools: Access the Monitor and Test tools to debug and test your app.
    The options for working with canvas apps change depending on your selection from the
    authoring menu. For example, when you select the Tree view menu option, you see a Tree view
    pane appear.
    6 – App authoring options
    Tree view
    Select the tree view to show the screens available in the app.
      Tip
     Select App in the tree view to work with app-specific controls. You can change app
     behavior, such as adding a formula for the OnStart event of the app.
    Switch to the Components tab of Tree view to work with component library features. You can
    add new components or reuse ones from the published component libraries. For more
    information, see Component library.
    For more information on adding components by selecting + New component, see the Insert
    section.
    Variables
    You can save data such as resulting values from a data set into temporary storage by using
    variables. This section lists variables used by the current app. For more information, see
    Variables in canvas apps.
    A collection is a group of items that are similar, such as products in a product list. For more
    information, see Collections in canvas apps.
    Search
    You can find components in your app or find and replace them.
    Themes
    You can choose a premade colored theme or custom-make your own colored theme by
    selecting + Add a theme.
    Media
    Select Media to add images, video, or audio files to your app. Adding media directly to your
    app uploads the files to the app and uses the app storage.
      Tip
        Each file uploaded to the app as media must be 64 MB or smaller.
        The size of all media files uploaded to an app can't exceed 200 MB.
    If you want to reference more media, consider using audio and video controls with URLs,
    media from Azure Media Services.
    For more information, see Using multimedia files in Power Apps.
    Power Automate
    Create a new flow with Power Automate, or select a flow you added previously.
    For more information, see Use Power Automate pane.
    Advanced tools
    Advanced tools include Monitor and Tests, where you can track and test your app.
    7 – Canvas/screen
    The canvas shows the currently selected screen in the Tree view from the authoring menu.
    When you edit a canvas app, you can Use inline actions in Power Apps Studio so you don't
    have to leave your current view. Inline actions make the development process more efficient.
    8 – Properties pane
    The properties pane shows properties and options for the currently selected object on the
    canvas.
       The Display tab shows generic options such as the name, description, exit or exit
       message, and more.
       The Advanced tab shows options for customization with key value pairs in areas of action,
       data, and design in your app.
         Tip
        The advanced properties might be locked for editing, such as when working with
        data cards. Select Unlock to change properties in such situations.
    9 – Settings
    Access Settings at the bottom of the app authoring menu or from the command bar as
    previously described.
    10 – Screen selector
    Use the screen selector to switch between screens when your canvas app has multiple screens.
    You can also select a screen from the authoring menu by selecting the tree view. If the current
    selection is inside a container, or inside an individual cell in a gallery, the selector shows the
    breadcrumbs for the parent elements at each level.
                                            
    11 – Change canvas screen size
    You can zoom in or out while authoring the canvas app. Select Ctrl+0 (zero) to fit to window,
    which fits the canvas to the current authoring window size.
    The following image shows what the canvas looks like when fit to window. You can also use the
    controls to zoom further in or out to view your canvas.
                                            
     ７ Note
     The zoom percentage or screen size you use when authoring a canvas app doesn't affect
     the aspect ratio you configure for the app. When you preview your app or play a
       published app, your screen size is temporary.
      Last updated on 03/25/2026
       Use inline actions in Power Apps Studio
       Article • 10/29/2024
       Inline actions are hidden menus that appear when you hover over screen layouts such as
       a blank screen and gallery or form controls. For example, if you hover over the canvas of
       a blank screen of your app, you see the Copilot and Templates inline actions appear.
       Use inline actions to update layouts, work with data, collaborate with your colleagues,
       and use Copilot directly on the canvas for specific controls. This means you can build
       and modify your app without navigating away from your current view in Power Apps
       Studio. Inline actions provide a more streamlined and efficient way to work.
       Use Copilot inline
       Use Copilot inline to help you write Power Fx formulas. Use Copilot to apply conditional
       formatting, sort and filter your data, and more with the help of Power Apps Ideas. The
       Copilot button appears where applicable, offering suggestions for supported controls
       such as Gallery, Data table, Text input, Drop down, Combo box, and Text label. For
       more information, see Power Apps Ideas.
       Choose a layout
       Inline actions can help you with layout options to create the look you want.
       Blank screens
       You can use inline actions to apply a layout to blank screens. For example, if you add a
       new blank screen to your app and hover over the canvas, you can select the inline action
       Templates and then select one of more than one dozen layouts.
        ７ Note
        Once you add content to a screen, the Templates button is no longer available
        unless you remove the content.
                                           
      Gallery control (classic) layouts
      You can insert a gallery control, hover over the control, and then use the Layout inline
      action to change the layout for that control. Different layout options appear when you
      add a Vertical gallery or Horizontal gallery.
       ７ Note
       When you change or remove controls after applying a layout, your customizations
       are removed.
       Form control (modern or classic) layouts
       When you add a modern or classic Form control, you're prompted to add a data source.
       Once the control is linked to data and added to your screen, you can see the Layout
       inline action appear when hovering over the control.
       You can then use the Layout option to select whether the labels and inputs are arranged
       vertically or horizontally.
          Select the Vertical layout to place the label above the corresponding input control.
          For example, you might want a title displayed with a description below the title.
          Select the Horizontal layout to place the label to the left of the input control. For
          example, you might want an image on the left side of your list item and a name on
          the right side of your list item.
       Add Data and Fields
       When you link any control with data, you see the Fields inline action fill with fields from
       the data. For example, linking a Table control with data populates the Fields inline
       action with fields directly from the data such as Account Number, Address 1, and
       Account Name. You can choose which fields you want to display or add a new field.
      Gallery, Table, and Form
      When you add a Gallery, Table, or Form control, you're prompted to add a data source
      through the Select a data source popup. Once you add a data source, the control
      displays the data. Use the Fields inline action to select which fields are shown on the
      control from the selected data source.
        In a Table control, you can drag and drop the fields to change the order that they
        appear in the table.
        In a Form control, if you choose a new data source, you're prompted to replace the
        data card. When you confirm your selection, it removes any customizations and
        generates a new form with fields corresponding to the new data source.
      This form control has the Accounts data set as a data source. If you change that source
      by selecting the Data inline action, all customized fields are removed or replaced with
      fields from the new data.
        Tip
       You can always access the Data and Fields inline actions to modify data used in the
       Form, Gallery, or Table control. These inline actions are available when hovering,
       whether or not you've selected a data source already.
      Add comments
      Comments allow you to tag peers in your app to ask questions, leave instructions, and
      propose next steps. You can add and read comments on a screen and any control from
      inline actions.
      To add a comment, select the Comments icon in the command bar to show the
      Comments pane. Select the New button to start writing a comment.
              Once the comment is posted, you see a comment icon in the inline action menu, when
              you hover over a control.
              If you remove all comments from a control, the comment icon in the inline action menu
              is removed too.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Add comments when you're building a
       canvas app
       Article • 03/07/2025
       Easily add comments when you’re building a canvas app in Power Apps Studio. Use
       comments to help your team review the app and provide feedback, or provide
       additional information on implementation details in your app. To allow other makers to
       add comments, make sure to share the app with them.
       You can add comments to different components or pages.
                                                 
       Legend
        1. Tree view: Select a screen from the tree view and right-click to add a New
          comment.
        2. Component: In the canvas area, right-click on a component to add a New
          comment.
        3. App actions: Select Comments > New and then add your comments.
       Use @mention in comments to tag someone
       for feedback
       Connect with other makers in your organization as you collaborate on creating your
       app. You can tag people in the comments by using @+ their name.
       If you tag a maker that doesn’t have access to your app, then you're prompted to share
       the app with them.
       When someone tags you in a comment, you receive an email that lets you know which
       app you're tagged in and the person who tagged you. It also includes the comment text
       and a direct link to that comment.
       Edit or delete a comment
       You can edit your comments or remove existing comments from appearing in the app.
       In the Comments pane, next to a comment, select ..., and then select Edit comment or
       Delete comment.
       Resolve a comment
       Comments are commonly questions, feedback, or ideas that are important context to
       live alongside your app. But they might not be active discussions anymore. You can
       resolve a comment or reopen a resolved comment thread to better track the active
       comments.
        1. In the Comments pane, next to a comment, select ..., and then select Resolve
          comment.
                 2. The comment thread appears as Resolved.
                 3. Select one to remove the comment:
                           Reopen a thread.
                          Delete a thread.
              Limitations
                 1. The numbers of users who can access an app in edit mode is limited. If you have
                    an app open and tag someone, the user receives an email notification. The user
                    must wait for you to exit the app in order to see the comment and resolve it.
                 2. Comments aren't supported when you're working on an app using Git.
                 3. @mention isn't supported for SharePoint custom Power Apps. Learn more in
                    Customize a form for a SharePoint list.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
      Understand coauthoring and copresence in
      canvas apps
        Summarize this article for me
      ﾃ
      Collaborate on canvas apps in Power Apps Studio by using copresence and coauthoring. These
      features let you work with other makers in real time, improving productivity and teamwork.
      https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=719b89e6-32ce-498b-9597-
      600d91019ec4&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
      apps%2Fcopresence-power-apps-studio
      What you'll learn:
         How to see who's working on your app and work together effectively
         When to use copresence vs. coauthoring for your collaboration needs
         Step-by-step instructions to enable and use these features
      Key differences:
         Copresence shows who else is working on the same app, but only one person can edit
         the app at a time. The first person who opens the app gets editing control.
         Coauthoring lets multiple people edit the app at the same time and see each other's
         changes in real time.
      Use copresence to see who's working on the same
      app
      When you open an app for editing in Power Apps Studio, indicators might show that other
      people are also working on the app. These indicators are part of the copresence feature.
      The first person who opens the app gets editing control. If another person opens the app, a
      notification lets them know that someone else is editing the app, and they're viewing it in read-
      only mode. In read-only mode, you can't add new screens, edit control properties, or use the
      command bar. You can save a copy of the app.
      The command bar shows the names and icons of other makers who are editing or viewing the
      app. The left navigation pane shows the app's structure and highlights which part of the app
      someone else is editing. You also get a notification to refresh the app when someone saves
      changes to the app.
                                                    
     Legend:
       1. The command bar shows the names and icons of other makers who are editing or
        viewing the app.
       2. A Read-only warning appears if someone already has editing control elsewhere. You can
        select Override to become the main author and regain editing rights.
       3. In Tree view, you see the app's structure and other people's profile pictures on the part of
        the app someone else is editing.
       Tip
      If you're inactive for two hours while editing an app, Power Apps asks if you want to keep
      editing or switch to read-only mode. If you don't respond, the system puts you in read-
      only mode so other makers can become the editor.
      If autosave is on, your changes are automatically saved. If autosave isn't on, Power Apps
      notifies you that you're no longer editing and lets you save a copy of your changes.
     Use coauthoring to edit the same app together
     Coauthoring lets multiple makers edit a canvas app at the same time. When you use
     coauthoring, you can see where other makers are working on the app and view their changes
     in real time.
                                                  
     When multiple editors work on the app, their avatars appear.
        The left navigation pane shows the app's structure in Tree view and shows which part of
        the app someone else is editing. For example, you might edit Screen 1, while someone
        else edits Screen 2.
        The area that another maker edits is highlighted and shows their initials. For example,
        someone else might edit a part of a form, which is highlighted for the first user.
      ） Important
      Multiple makers can select and edit a control at the same time. Be careful not to overwrite
      each other's changes.
     Turn on coauthoring
     To use coauthoring, turn it on for each app. When you turn on coauthoring, it overrides the
     copresence feature.
       1. Open your app for editing in Power Apps Studio.
       2. Go to Settings > Updates > New.
       3. In the search box, type coauthor.
       4. Turn on the Coauthoring toggle.
     Limitations of coauthoring
        When more than one maker edits an app, the following actions aren't available:
          Search
          Save as
          Open another or new app
          Undo and redo
          Switch authoring versions
        The maximum number of coauthors is 10, either in one session or across a total of 10
        tabs, depending on which limit you reach first. Any other coauthors or tabs beyond 10 are
        in copresence and can't edit the app or view real-time updates.
        The app language is locked to the locale of the first maker who opens the app for editing.
        Opening the same app in a different locale can lead to errors in formulas.
        Cut isn't available.
        Coauthoring is turned off in the Monitor tool.
        You can encounter a problem with the following actions:
           Renaming a control
           Adding AI Builder components
           Adding geospatial controls
           Running a flow that another coauthor added, without refreshing the app first
           Viewing errors from one author's actions on all other coauthors' screens
           Copying and pasting
      ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 02/25/2026
             Add and configure controls in canvas
             apps
             Article • 10/29/2024
             Add a variety of UI elements to your canvas app, and configure aspects of their
             appearance and behavior directly, from the toolbar, in the Properties tab, or in the
             formula bar. These UI elements are called controls, and the aspects that you configure
             are called properties.
             Prerequisites
                1. If you don't already have a Power Apps license, sign up, and then sign in   .
                2. Create a blank canvas app.
                   You can always take the tour later by selecting the question-mark icon near the
                   upper-right corner of your screen and then selecting Take the intro tour.
             Add and select a control
             Let's add a new screen and a button control. However, you can add any type of control.
                1. Select Insert from the authoring menu, then select New screen.
                2. Choose Blank to add a blank screen to your app. (Screens are a type of control
                   that can contain other types of controls.)
        The new screen is named Screen2 and appears in the Tree view. This pane shows a
        hierarchical list of controls in your app so that you can easily find and select each
        control.
       3. With Screen2 selected, select Insert again.
       4. Select the Button control. The new control appears under Screen2 in the
        hierarchical list of Tree view.
         In the screen, a box with six handles surrounds the button by default. These
         handles surround any control selected and are used to size the control.
        5. Select the screen (outside the button) and the box handles disappear. To select the
         control again, select it directly on the canvas or from the Tree view list.
          ） Important
          You must always select a control before you can configure it.
       Rename a control
        1. In the list of controls, hover over the control that you want to rename to reveal the
         overflow menu (ellipsis).
        2. Select the ellipses.
        3. Select Rename. Add a unique, memorable name to make building your app easier.
       Delete a control
       You can delete a control either through control in the Tree view list or directly from the
       canvas.
       Delete a control from Tree view
         1. In the list of controls, hover over the control that you want to delete to reveal the
          overflow menu (ellipsis).
         2. Select the ellipses.
         3. Select Delete.
       Delete a control from the canvas
       Select the control on the canvas, then press the Delete key.
       Reorder screens
        1. In Tree view, hover over a screen that you want to move up or down to reveal the
          overflow menu (ellipses).
        2. Select the ellipsis, then choose Move up or Move down. If you don't see a Move
          down option, your screen is at the lowest point in the list already.
        ７ Note
        When the app is opened, the screen at the top of the list of controls usually
        appears first. However, you can specify a different screen by setting the OnStart
        property to a formula that includes the Navigate function.
       Move and resize a control
       To move a control, select it, hover over its center so that the four-headed arrow appears,
       and then drag the control to a different location.
       To resize a control, select it, hover over any handle in the selection box so that the two-
       headed arrow appears, and then drag the handle.
        ７ Note
        As this topic describes later, you can also move and resize a control by modifying
        any combination of its X, Y, Height, and Width properties in the formula bar.
       Configure a control in the Properties pane
       By using the Properties pane, specific to the control you select, you can specify a wide
       variety of options.
       For example, if you select a button control, you can replace the value of the text
       displayed through the control's Properties pane.
        ７ Note
        You can alternatively change display text by modifying its Text property in the
        formula bar.
       Configure a control in the formula bar
      You can configure a control by selecting a property in the property list and then
      specifying a value in the formula bar. Autocomplete can be helpful in the formula bar to
      see values you can use for a control.
      Change the font color of a control
      For example, if you want to change the font color for your control's text. You see many
      color options.
      Change the position on the canvas of a control
      You can set the X and Y coordinates for the position of the control using the formula
      bar. Setting coordinates in the formula bar gives you greater precision of control
      placement.
      For example, if you select X or Y in the properties list and specify a number in the
      formula bar, you see the control move to that coordinate. In this case, the button moves
      to position 100 on the X axis, assuming the far left side of the canvas is the zero point.
      Change the control's size
      You can resize a control by selecting Height or Width in the properties list and then
      specifying a different number in the formula bar.
      Change the control's display text
      You can change a control's display text by selecting Text in the properties list and then
      specifying any combination of a literal string, an expression, or a formula in the formula
      bar.
      Literal string
      A literal string is surrounded by quotation marks and appears exactly as you type it.
      "Hello, world" is a literal string.
       ７ Note
       When you add text that is longer than the width of your control, the control doesn't
       change its width to accomodate the text. You must manually change the control's
       size to fit the text.
      Expression
      An expression is often based on a property of another control. Screen2.Height is an
      expression that shows the height of Screen2 where the display text is shown for a
      button control.
      Using an expression, for example, you can set a background image or icon as the fill for
      your button.
      Formula
      A formula includes one or more functions. The Now function returns the current date
      and time in your local time zone, and the Text function formats values such as dates,
      times, and currency.
      For example, you can display the date and time in a Label:
                                                                                                        
              Formulas are usually much more complex than this example so that they can update
              data, sort it, filter it, and perform other operations. For more information, see the
              formula reference.
              Related information
                    Find step-by-step procedures for configuring common controls such as screens,
                    lists, galleries, forms, and charts.
                    Find reference information about each type of control in the control reference.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
    Add and navigate screens in canvas apps
    Create modern, responsive apps by adding prebuilt screens for common app scenarios. The
    screens feature responsive containers and modern controls that adapt to different screen sizes.
    You can also add custom screens with different layouts and controls.
    The following new prebuilt screens are available:
       Approval request
       Welcome screen
       Header and gallery
       Header and form
       Header and table
   Add a new screen
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Create a canvas app or open one for editing.
            3. On the command bar, select New screen, and then select a screen layout.
            4. Preview the app to determine how it looks on different devices. For more information, see
              Preview an app.
             Tip
            To make the app adapt to the size of the device display it's running on, turn off the Scale
            to fit option.
         Welcome screen
         The Welcome screen works well as the first screen of an app. You can customize each tile with
         an image, a title, and a description. Add or remove tiles in the main container to change the
         number of tiles. Use the tiles to guide users to other parts of the app.
         The Welcome screen template includes the following controls:
              Screen container
                 Header container
                    Header
                 Main container
                    Container
                       Image container
                          Image
                       Title container
                          Feature item button
                          Description text
                                            
    Add and customize the Welcome screen
      1. Select New screen > Welcome screen.
      2. To change the image of a tile, select it and then select Edit.
      3. Select the Feature Item button control and add your own text in the Properties pane.
      4. Select the Short description or engaging message text and add your own.
      5. Add and remove tiles if needed.
         To add tiles in the tree view, copy and paste a Container item.
         To remove a tile in the tree view, right-click a Container, and then select Delete.
     Header and gallery screen
     Use the Header and gallery screen to show a range of product or service information, like a
     product catalog. When you connect a gallery control to a data source, a catalog is
     automatically created with little customization required.
     The gallery control in the Header and gallery screen is a classic control. When the modern
     gallery control is released, the Header and gallery screen uses it. For more information, see
     Overview of modern controls and themes in canvas apps.
     The Header and gallery screen has the following template for controls:
        Screen container
         Header container
           Header
         Main container
           Gallery
            Gallery container
              Image container
               Image
              Title container
               Title text
               Description text
              Button container
               Button
                                                    
     Add and customize the header and gallery screen
       1. Select New Screen > Header and gallery.
       2. In the tree view, select Gallery and connect it to a data source such as Dataverse.
       3. Select specific controls inside the gallery, such as the image, title text, and text
        description. In the control's properties, use the ThisItem syntax to set the desired image,
        title text, and description.
        For example, to add the Account name to the title text control, find it by typing ThisItem
        in the formula bar to see a list of available items to add from your data set.
                                              
     Approval request screen
     The Approval request screen has a header, a form with a submit button, and a gallery with
     predefined stages. The Approval request screen is useful for scenarios where actions are
     triggered by form submissions, such as submitting an approval request or displaying a
     workflow process for a business.
       Tip
      When you add an approval request screen, connect it to a data source. The data source
      determines the field names in the request form.
     The Approval request screen has the following template for controls:
        Screen container
        Header container
         Header
        Main container
         Form container
           Form title text
           Approval form
           Submit button
         Sidebar container
           Reviewers text
           Reviewers gallery
                                            
    Add and customize the Approval request screen
      1. Select New Screen > Approval request.
      2. In the tree view on ApprovalForm, connect to a data source such as Dataverse.
      3. Choose a data source.
      4. To view the details of the approval stages, select ReviewersGallery under the
       SidebarContainer node in the tree view. Then, in the properties pane, select the
       Advanced tab and go to Items.
       The approval stages have the following details:
         Name: Name of the stage or approver
         Title: Subtitle of the stage or approver
         Status: Stage status
          Current: Whether this stage is the current stage of the approval request
     To notify the approver, add a Power Automate approval workflow in the button. For more
     information, see Create and test an approval workflow with Power Automate.
     Header and form
     The Header and form screen has a header, a form, and two buttons to submit the form or
     cancel form submission. This screen is great for using a full-screen form.
     The Header and form screen has the following template for controls:
       Screen container
         Header container
          Header
         Main container
          Form container
           Form
          Button container
           Cancel button
           Submit button
                                                  
     Add and customize the Header and form screen
      1. Select New Screen > Header and form.
      2. In the tree view, you see Form selected and a prompt appears for you to connect the
        form to a data source.
      3. Choose a data source.
      4. Optionally, to ensure the best screen responsiveness, select each data card on the form
        and set its Width Fit property to On in the Display tab of the Properties pane.
     Header and table
     The Header and table screen has two controls: a header control and a table control. This
     template is great for showing a detailed data table on a screen.
     The Header and table screen has the following controls:
        Header container
         Header
        Main container
         Table
     Add and customize the Header and table screen
      1. Select New Screen > Header and table.
      2. In the tree view, select Table and connect it to a data source.
     Table and form
     The Table and form screen contains two main controls: the modern table control and the
     modern form control. This template has built-in Power Fx formulas to make data connection
     and customization easy. This template is ideal for selecting and editing a record by using a
     form.
     The Table and form screen contains the following controls:
        Screen container
         Header container
          Header control
         Body container
          Text input (Search)
          Table control
          Form control
          Button
            New
            Edit
            Delete
            Submit
            Cancel
                                                  
     Add and customize Table and form screen
     In Power Apps Studio:
      1. Select New Screen > Table and form.
      2. Select Data in the inline action bar.
      3. Select the data source you want.
       When you connect, the table and form controls both connect to the data source.
    You can select a record in the table control, and the form shows the details of the selected
    record.
    All buttons in this template have prebuilt Power Fx, so you don't need to customize them.
    When you connect the screen to the selected data source, the screen becomes fully functional.
                                            
     Reorder screens
     When your app has more than one screen, you can change their order in the tree view.
     Select the overflow menu of a screen that you want to reorder, and then select Move up or
     Move down.
     Use the StartScreen property to set the screen that displays first.
     Add navigation
     When your app has more than one screen, add navigation so your users can move between
     them.
       1. Select the screen. Select Insert. In the search box, type Next arrow and then select it.
       2. Move the arrow to where you want it to appear on the screen.
       3. Select the arrow. Set the OnSelect property to the Navigate function. For example, use
        Navigate(Target, Fade).
        Replace Target with the name of the screen where you want to navigate.
                                                   
        In this example, when a user selects the arrow, the target screen fades in.
       4. On the Target screen, add a Back arrow icon the same way. Set its OnSelect property, for
        example, Navigate(Target, ScreenTransition.Fade).
        Replace Target with the name of the screen where you want to return.
      Related information
      Screen-control reference
      ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 01/14/2026
        Add Microsoft 365 Copilot for app users in
        canvas apps (preview)
        [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
        Microsoft 365 Copilot makes it easier for users to work with canvas apps by offering AI-powered
        insights through natural language conversations. By using this feature, users can quickly find
        information, navigate apps more easily, and get help to boost their productivity. App makers can
        enable Microsoft 365 Copilot to give users access to conversational AI that understands app data
        and provides helpful, contextual answers. Users can ask questions about their Microsoft
        Dataverse table or SharePoint list data in plain language and receive immediate, relevant
        responses.
        This article shows you how to enable and configure Microsoft 365 Copilot for your canvas apps,
        both at the environment level and for individual apps.
        When enabled, users can open Microsoft 365 Copilot in their canvas app by selecting Copilot on
        the upper-right corner. For more information, see Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in canvas apps.
           ） Important
                This feature is in preview.
                Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
                functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use  . They're
                available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide
                feedback.
                This feature is in the process of rolling out and might not be available in your region
                yet.
        Prerequisites
        To use Microsoft 365 Copilot in canvas apps, make sure the following prerequisites are met:
             You must enable the feature using https://make.preview.powerapps.com/      .
             Your tenant must be set to allow Dataverse data available in Microsoft 365 Copilot. For
             more information, see Enable Microsoft 365 admin center Copilot Dataverse settings.
             Dataverse Search must be set to Default or On for the environment. For more information,
             see Understand what this means for generative AI experiences.
             To use the Microsoft 365 Copilot feature in your app, users must have a Microsoft 365
             Copilot license.
          ７ Note
                Microsoft 365 Copilot for canvas apps with Dataverse relies on Dataverse Search
                indexes. Enabling this feature might increase your environment’s Dataverse capacity
                consumption. For more information, see What actions can makers or admins take to
                manage Dataverse Search efficiently.
                Sufficient Dataverse database capacity must be available to support indexing, semantic
                search, and Copilot operations. For more information, see Capacity page details.
        Enable Microsoft 365 Copilot for your environment
        To manage Microsoft 365 Copilot for canvas apps, start by learning how to manage Microsoft
        365 Copilot.
        Power Platform administrators can set up and configure the Microsoft 365 Copilot feature for
        users in their environment.
           1. Sign in to the Power Platform admin center  .
           2. In the navigation pane, go to Copilot > Settings. Under Power Apps, expand Chat Agent
             and choose M365 Copilot.
           3. Select an environment group or an environment name, and then select Edit Setting.
           4. Select On and then select Save to enable Microsoft 365 Copilot for your canvas apps in the
             selected environment group or environment.
        Enable Microsoft 365 Copilot in a canvas app
        Makers can enable or disable Microsoft 365 Copilot for a specific canvas app.
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
           2. Open a canvas app for editing.
           3. Select Settings in the command bar.
           4. On the left, select General.
           5. To enable Microsoft 365 Copilot, set M365 Copilot in canvas apps (Preview) to On. To
             disable it, set the option to Off.
           6. Select Save and then publish the app for the changes to take effect.
        Microsoft 365 Copilot vs. Copilot chat
        Microsoft 365 Copilot is replacing Copilot chat in canvas apps.
        Known limitations
             Agents you author can't yet use in‑app user context to optimize their responses.
        M365 Copilot in canvas apps supports apps that use either SharePoint or Dataverse as a
        data source but not both within the same app.
        During the initial preview phase, for SharePoint, only applications containing a single
        SharePoint list will return answers to questions.
        If your canvas app connects to a SharePoint list through an environment variable, Microsoft
        365 Copilot won't reference data from that SharePoint list.
        Microsoft 365 Copilot for canvas apps allows users to view data by using read-only
        operations. This capability means that users can only view data that matches their queries
        and can't make any changes. To make changes, customization with an agent is required.
        Microsoft 365 Copilot for canvas apps isn't available in the Power Apps mobile app.
     Related information
        Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in canvas apps (preview)
        Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot with an agent in canvas apps (preview)
        Add Microsoft 365 Copilot to model-driven apps
        Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps
        Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps
      Last updated on 06/16/2026
         Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot with an
         agent (preview)
         Microsoft 365 Copilot in Power Apps lets users interact with custom agents that extend what
         Copilot can do. By customizing an agent, you can create tailored experiences that fit your
         organization's business processes and data. For more information, see Use agents in Microsoft
         365 Copilot.
         This article describes the types of agents you can build for Microsoft 365 Copilot in Power Apps
         and helps you choose the right approach for your scenario.
         Choose an agent type
         The following table compares the agent types you can build.
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
           Agent type       Description                                         Common use cases
           Declarative      Built with low-code tools and templates for quick   Automate routine tasks, answer FAQs,
           agent            setup of common scenarios in Microsoft 365          and provide guided workflows.
                            Copilot.
           Custom           Built with custom logic and integrations for        Complex business processes, custom
           engine agent     advanced capabilities tailored to your business.    data integrations, and specialized
                                                                                automation.
           Copilot Studio   Built and managed in Microsoft Copilot Studio,      Interactive chatbots, team
           agent            with integration to Teams and Microsoft 365 for     collaboration, and personalized
                            conversational experiences.                         support within Microsoft 365 apps.
         To find the best option for your organization, use these resources:
               Get an overview and guidance on how to choose what type of agent to build in Microsoft
               365 Copilot agents overview.
               Build a declarative agent for Microsoft 365 Copilot or a custom engine agent for Microsoft
               365.
               Use Microsoft Copilot Studio to connect and set up an agent for Teams and Microsoft 365
               so it's available in Microsoft 365 Copilot.
        Review the guidance on how to choose between Microsoft 365 Copilot and Copilot Studio
        to build your agent.
     Related information
        Add Microsoft 365 Copilot for app users in canvas apps (preview)
        Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in canvas apps (preview)
     ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 06/16/2026
         Add a Copilot control to a canvas app
         (preview)
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
         [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
         The Copilot control is an AI assistant that you can add to your canvas apps. By using Copilot,
         app users can get insights about the data in your app through natural language conversations
         with an AI-powered copilot. Makers can add the control to any canvas app and choose which
         data provide answers.
            ） Important
            Starting February 2, 2026, you can't add the Copilot control to new canvas apps. Existing
            apps with this control will remain functional for a limited time but will eventually no longer
            be supported. Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat in canvas apps      is the new the recommended
            solution for natural language interactions in canvas apps. To ensure a smooth transition
            and prevent any disruption, we recommend that you migrate to Microsoft 365 Copilot
            chat as soon as it becomes available in your environment.
            ７ Note
                 This is a preview feature.
                 Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
                 functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use   , and are
                 available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
                 provide feedback.
                 This feature is powered by Azure OpenAI Service.
         Prerequisites
         Ensure you meet the prerequisites and region availability in Copilot in Power Apps overview
         (preview).
         Copilot doesn't work in environments that use a customer-managed key or Customer Lockbox.
         Set up Copilot for your environment
         To let app users use the Copilot chat experience in a canvas app, a Power Platform admin
         needs to enable Allow users to analyze data using an AI-powered chat experience in canvas
         and model-driven apps in the Power Platform admin center     . Learn more in Manage feature
         settings.
         Set up Copilot for your canvas app
         To add a Copilot control to your canvas app, turn on Copilot component and Edit in Copilot
         Studio in the app settings in Power Apps  .
         Copilot component: Turns on the Copilot feature in your canvas app so you can add the
         Copilot control and connect it to a copilot.
         Edit in Copilot Studio: Lets you customize the copilot using Copilot Studio. If you turn off this
         option, only the default copilot is available.
            1. Open your canvas app for editing in Power Apps Studio. On the command bar, select
              Settings > Updates.
            2. On the Preview tab, turn on the Copilot component and Edit in Copilot Studio settings.
     Add the Copilot control to your canvas app
     With your canvas app open for editing, and all settings configured:
       1. In the app authoring menu, select Insert, and then select Copilot (preview).
       2. When prompted to add a data source to Copilot, select a Dataverse table as the data
        source.
      ７ Note
      The Copilot control only supports Dataverse tables for the data source.
     Customize the copilot by using Copilot Studio
     Copilot Studio is an app that you use to create and edit copilots for your apps. Define your
     copilot's articles, actions, and other features. For example, make your copilot respond to
     specific questions about your app's data or perform actions like opening a screen or sending
     an email.
     Customize your newly connected copilot in Power Apps through the properties menu.
       1. Select the Copilot control on your canvas. Select Edit next to the Customize copilot field
        in Properties.
       2. If you don't have a copilot, select Create new copilot in the Customize Copilot pane. The
        Copilot control in Power Apps Studio doesn't support enabling an existing Copilot from
        Copilot Studio.
                                                                                                 
              Copilot Studio    opens in a new tab. Any changes you make in Copilot Studio appear in
              your connected copilot in your canvas app.
         Learn more in Quickstart: Create and deploy a copilot.
         Collect feedback from app users
         Makers and app users provide feedback on copilot responses by selecting the Like (thumbs up)
         or Dislike (thumbs down) button for each response. Enter detailed feedback in the text box,
         and then select Submit.
         Feedback goes to Microsoft to help improve the Copilot control.
         Disallow feedback from app users
         If you don't want your app users to provide feedback to Microsoft, turn off the feedback
         option.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps  , and select Tables from the left navigation pane.
       2. Select the Organization table from the list.
       3. In the Organization columns and data section, select the column headers list. The Show
         existing column popup appears.
       4. Search for Allow users to provide feedback for App Copilot, and make sure the check
         box is unchecked.
       5. Select Save.
                                                           
      Related information
         Build apps through conversation (preview)
         Use your prompt in Power Automate
         Add Copilot for app users in model-driven apps
         Power Apps Copilot control (video)
      ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 02/24/2026
         Add a custom Copilot to a canvas app
         (preview)
              Summarize this article for me
         ﾃ
         [This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]
         You can integrate a custom Copilot created in Microsoft Copilot Studio and enable it for your
         canvas app. This lets users interact with Copilot to ask questions about the data in your app.
         With just a few simple steps, you can embed a custom Copilot across all your canvas app
         screens without changing the app's design.
            ） Important
            Starting February 2, 2026, adding a custom Copilot to new canvas apps will be
            discontinued. Existing apps using this feature will remain functional for a limited time but
            will eventually no longer be supported. Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat in canvas apps     is
            the new the recommended solution for natural language interactions in canvas apps. To
            ensure a smooth transition and prevent any disruption, we recommend that you migrate
            to Microsoft 365 Copilot chat as soon as it becomes available in your environment.
            ７ Note
                 This is a preview feature.
                 Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
                 functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use   , and are
                 available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
                 provide feedback.
                 App Copilot for canvas apps is currently rolling out and might not yet be available in
                 your region. App Copilot may be available on Power Apps mobile for mobile devices
                 before it becomes available on the web browser during rollout.
         Availability
               This capability might not be available in your region yet. Learn more in Explore Copilot
               features by geography and languages     .
               During the rollout, this capability might be accessible on the Power Apps mobile app
               before it becomes available on web browsers.
        To use copilots in Power Apps, you must enable data movement across regions for
        generative AI features. This is crucial if your organization and environment are located in
        different regions. For more information, see Enable copilots and generative AI features.
     Prerequisites
     Before using this feature, make sure the following prerequisites are met:
        Create a custom Copilot in Copilot Studio and publish it in the same environment as your
        canvas app.
        Configure the custom Copilot with user authentication in Microsoft Entra ID.
        Give makers and users access to the Copilot within the environment.
     Connect Copilot to your app
     Open your canvas app for editing in Power Apps Studio:
       1. In the command bar, go to Settings > Updates > Preview tab, and set the toggle for App
        Copilot to On.
        You see a Copilot tab appear in Settings.
       2. Select the Copilot tab. In the drop-down list under Connect a copilot, select a custom
        copilot published and shared in the same environment as your canvas app.
                                                       
        3. Once you select a Copilot, close the settings dialog box and publish the app. Once the
         app is published, users are able to use Copilot within it.
      Copilot isn't visible when previewing an app in Power Apps Studio. To see Copilot in action,
      save and publish your app, and then open it using the Power Apps mobile app or a web
      browser.
        Tip
       Removing the custom Copilot from the app will disable its functionality.
      Use Copilot in your app
         Open your canvas app in a web browser. On the command bar, select Copilot.
                                                
         In the Power Apps mobile app on iOS or Android devices, select the floating button to
         access Copilot. You can reposition the button or dismiss it. To use Copilot again after
         dismissing it, close and reopen the app.
      Difference between this feature and the Copilot
      control
      This feature lets you add a custom Copilot created in Microsoft Copilot Studio to a canvas app.
      It doesn't require any changes to the app's layout. It's available both on the web and natively
      on mobile devices, and it can connect to existing custom Copilots created in Copilot Studio.
      When you add a Copilot control to a canvas app, makers need to update the app's layout to
      accommodate the control, which is only available on the web. This control supports asking
      questions about your data or connecting to a new custom copilot from Copilot Studio.
      See Also
      FAQ for Copilot
       Last updated on 02/24/2026
       Create and edit tables using the table
       designer
       Article • 10/29/2024
       Create and edit Dataverse tables in canvas apps using the table designer inside Power
       Apps Studio. You can also work with the data that's in the table without leaving the app
       that you're working on.
       Create a table
         1. Create a new or open an existing app in Power Apps Studio.
         2. In the app authoring menu, select Data.
         3. On the Data pane, select Add Data > Create new table.
           ７ Note
           If the Create new table button is disabled then review Required permissions
           and limitations.
                                           
       4. You see Choose an option to create tables. For example, you can choose to Start
        from blank or Start with Copilot to create a new table.
       5. A new table is created for you in the canvas. Enter a name for the table directly
        where you see the table name.
        You can also expand the Properties pane found in the table's overflow menu (the
        ellipses) to edit the table properties, such as the plural name for the table. For
        example, a table name can be Ticket, and the plural table name can be Tickets.
                                           
        Can you also add columns or sample data to the table.
         6. When you're done editing, select Save and exit.
       Edit an existing table
       Once a Dataverse table is created, you can start editing the table. You can also add
       existing Dataverse tables to your app and edit those tables using the table designer.
         1. From the app authoring menu, select Data.
         2. On the Data pane, select Add data.
         3. In the Select a data source dialog box, from the list of Dataverse tables, select a
          table to add to your app.
         4. On the newly added table select, More actions > Edit data.
       5. The selected table is ready for editing in the table designer.
         ７ Note
         Some system tables might not be available for editing, or some editing
         actions may be disabled.
      Edit the table properties
      After selecting Edit data, you see the Edit table designer.
       1. Select Edit table properties.
             You can edit the following table properties.
                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
              Property          Description
              Display name      The singular name for the table shown in the app. The display name can be
                                changed later.
              Plural display    The plural name for the table shown in the app. The plural display name can
              name              be changed later.
              Description       Provide a meaningful description of the purpose of the table.
             Select Enable Attachments to append notes and files to records for this table.
             Select the Primary column tab if you want to change its Display Name or Description.
             The primary column is used by lookup fields when establishing relationships with other
             tables.
             Advanced options
             Select Advanced options to see the optional properties you can set. Otherwise some are
             already set for you.
                                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
               Property               Description
               Schema name            By default, the schema name is automatically created for you based on the
                                      display name, but you can change it. The schema name can't contain
                                      spaces and includes the customization prefix for the Dataverse solution
                                      publisher. You can't change the schema name after the table is saved.
               Logical name           A unique identifier for the entity. This name can't be changed once the
                                      entity is created.
               Type                   Select the type of table. Use standard for most tables. Activity tables are
                                      special tables that can only be owned by a user or team, but can't be
                                      owned by an organization. Virtual tables require the table be populated
                                      with data from an external source.
               Record ownership       Switch the table type to Activity table, so you can create tables that can
                                      manage tasks. The type of Ownership defines who can perform operations
                                      on a record.
               Color                  You can select your table color using words or hex codes.
               Primary row image      You can choose whether to display an image for the table. This image is
                                      displayed in Power Apps in some design areas. Notice that the image
                                      doesn't appear in apps using the table. To display images in apps, use the
                                      image column. Learn more in Image columns.
               Apply duplicate        If duplicate detection is enabled for your organization, enabling allows you
               detection rules        to create duplicate detection rules for this table.
               Track changes          Enables data synchronization in a performant way by detecting what data
                                      changed since the data was initially extracted or last synchronized.
               Provide custom         When selected, set a Help URL to control what page users see when they
               help                   select the help button in the application. Use help to provide guidance
                                      specific to your company processes for the table.
               Audit changes to its   When auditing is enabled for your organization, table records can change
               data                   to be captured over time. When you enable auditing for a table, auditing is
                                      also enabled on all its fields. You can select or clear fields that you want to
                                      enable auditing on.
               Leverage quick         After you create and publish a Quick Create Form for this table, people can
               create form if         create a new record using the Create button in the navigation pane. Learn
               available              more in Create and design model-driven app forms.
                                      If enabled for a custom activity table, the custom activity is visible in the
                                      group of activity entities when people use the Create button in the
                                      navigation pane. However, because activities don't support quick create
                                      forms, the main form is used when the custom table icon is selected.
               Property              Description
               Enable long term      Table can be included in the configuration of data retention, which moves
               retention             certain records to long term storage.
               Creating a new        Associate activities to records for this table.
               activity
               Doing a mail merge    App users can use this table with mail merge.
               Setting up            After other tasks are performed to enable document management for your
               SharePoint            organization, enabling this feature allows for this table to participate in
               document              integration with SharePoint.
               management
               Can have              Use the connections feature to show how records for this table have
               connections           connections to records of other tables that also have connections enabled.
               Can have a contact    Send emails using an email address stored in one of the fields for this
               email                 table. If a Single Line of Text column with format set to email doesn't
                                     already exist for this table, a new one is created when you enable sending
                                     email.
               Have an access        Create team templates for this table.
               team
               Can be linked to      Let app users write feedback for any table record, or rate table records
               feedback              within a defined rating range. Learn more in Configure a table for
                                     feedback/ratings.
               Appear in search      Enable so that table records can be included in search results when using
               results               an app.
               Can be taken          Makes data in this table available while the Power Apps application isn't
               offline               connected to a network.
               Can be added to a     Use the table with queues. Queues improve routing and sharing of work by
               queue                 making records for this table available in a central place that everyone can
                                     access.
             Add and edit columns
             You can create and edit columns in the table editor.
             Learn more in How to create and edit columns.
             Editing other table properties
       For more advanced table editing scenarios, using the table hub is required. Some
       examples of these kinds of edits are table relationships, keys, and deleting the table.
       Learn more in Create and edit tables using Power Apps.
       Add and edit data
       The table designer for canvas apps allows you to add new rows to a Dataverse table or
       edit rows inside Power Apps Studio using the table designer. You can start typing
       directly into the grid or select, New row.
       Learn more in Create your first table.
       Remove a table
       To remove a table from your app, select More options to the right of the table name
       then select, Remove.
        ７ Note
        When you remove a table, the table is removed and not deleted.
       Required permissions and limitations
          To create a table in Dataverse, the environment must have a Dataverse database
          provisioned. You must have system customizer or system administrator
                    permissions for the environment where you'd like to build a table. If these
                    conditions aren't met, the Create New Table button is disabled.
                    You can only create and edit tables in the current Dataverse environment. If you
                    changed your Dataverse environment using the environment picker, then the
                    Create new table and Edit table options is disabled.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
          Show a list of items in canvas apps
          05/31/2025
          Show a list of items from any data source by adding a Gallery control to your canvas app. This
          topic uses Excel as the data source. Filter the list by configuring the Gallery control to show
          only those items that match the filter criterion in a Text input control.
          Prerequisites
               Learn how to add and configure a control in Power Apps.
               Set up the sample data:
                  1. Download this Excel file   , which contains sample data for this tutorial.
                  2. Upload the Excel file to a cloud-storage account, such as OneDrive for Business.
               Open a blank app:
                  1. Create a blank canvas app.
                  2. Add a connection to the FlooringEstimates table in the Excel file.
          Add a gallery to a blank screen
             1. On the Insert tab, select Gallery, and then select Vertical.
             2. On the Properties tab of the right-hand pane, open the Items list, and then select
               Flooring Estimates.
       3. (optional) In the Layout list, select a different option.
     Add a gallery in a screen
       1. On the Home tab, select New screen > List screen.
        A screen that contains a Gallery control and other controls, such as a search bar, appears.
       2. Set the gallery's Items property to FlooringEstimates.
        The Gallery control shows the sample data.
     Add a control to the Gallery control
     Before you do any other customization, ensure that the layout for your Gallery control most
     closely matches what you want. From there, you can further modify the Gallery template, which
     determines how all data in the Gallery control appears.
       1. Select the template by clicking or tapping near the bottom of the Gallery control and
        then selecting the pencil icon in its upper-left corner.
       2. With the template still selected, add a Label control, and then move and resize it so that it
        doesn't overlap with other controls in the template.
      3. Select the gallery, and then select Edit next to Fields on the Properties tab of the right-
       hand pane.
      4. Select the label that you added earlier in this procedure, and then open the highlighted
       list in the Data pane.
       5. In that list, click or tap Price.
         The Gallery control shows the new values.
      Filter and sort a gallery
      The Items property of a Gallery control determines which items it shows. In this procedure, you
      configure that property so that it also determines which records appear based on filter criteria
      and in what order.
       1. Set the Items property of the Gallery control to this formula:
          Power Fx
           Sort(
               Filter(
              FlooringEstimates,
              IsBlank(TextSearchBox1.Text) or TextSearchBox1.Text in Text(Name)
               ),
               Name,
               If(
                   SortDescending1,
                   SortOrder.Descending,
                   SortOrder.Ascending
               )
           )
        For more information about the functions in this formula, see the formula reference.
       2. Double-click the search box, and then type part or all of a product name in it.
        Only those items that meet the filter criterion appear.
       3. While pressing the Alt key, select the sort icon one or more times to switch the sort order.
        The records toggle between ascending and descending alphabetical order based on the
        product name.
     Highlight the selected item
     Set the Gallery control's TemplateFill property to a formula that's similar to this example, but
     you can specify different colors if you want:
     If(ThisItem.IsSelected, LightCyan, White)
     Change the default selection
     Set the Gallery control's Default property to the record that you want to select by default. For
     example, you can specify the fifth item in the FlooringEstimates data source:
     Index(FlooringEstimates, 5)
     In this example, you specify the first item in the Hardwood category of the FlooringEstimates
     data source:
     LookUp(FlooringEstimates, Category = "Hardwood")
     Next steps
    Learn how to work with forms and formulas.
     Show items of different heights in a canvas
     app gallery
     If different items in your data set contain different amounts of data in the same field, you can
     display items that contain more data without adding extra empty space after items with less data.
     Add and configure a Flexible height gallery control so that you can:
        Configure Label controls to expand or shrink based on their contents.
        Position each control so that it automatically appears just below the control above it.
     In this article, you show data about flooring products in a Flexible height gallery control. The
     image of each product appears 5 pixels below the overview text, whether that overview is two
     lines or five.
      ７ Note
      If you've never added controls to a gallery, complete the steps in Show a list of items in a
      gallery before you proceed.
     Add data to a blank app
            1. Download this Excel file  , which contains names, overviews, and image links for flooring
              products.
            2. Upload the Excel file to a cloud-storage account such as OneDrive, SharePoint, Dropbox, or
              Google Drive.
            3. Create a blank app with Phone layout.
            4. Add a connection to the FlooringEstimates table in the Excel file.
              For more information, see Add a data connection.
        Add data to a gallery
            1. On the Insert tab, select Gallery > Flexible height.
            2. Resize the gallery to fill the entire screen.
            3. Set the gallery's Items property to FlooringEstimates.
        Show the product names
            1. In the upper-left corner of the gallery, select the pencil icon to enter template editing mode.
            2. With the gallery template selected, add a Label control.
            3. Set the Text property of the Label control to:
                Power Apps
        ThisItem.Name
     Show the product overviews
      1. With the gallery template selected, add a second Label control and move it below the first.
      2. Set the Text property of the second Label to:
        Power Apps
        ThisItem.Overview
      3. With the second Label selected, rename it to OverviewText using the name-tag icon on the
       Content tab.
      4. Set the AutoHeight property of OverviewText to true.
          Tip
         Setting AutoHeight to true on a label causes it to grow or shrink to fit its content. This
         is the key to making the flexible height gallery work correctly—without it, all items
         render at the same fixed height.
     Show the product images
      1. Make the template taller by dragging its bottom edge down to roughly double its current
       height.
       You can add controls to the template more easily as you build the app. This change doesn't
       affect how the app looks when it runs.
      2. With the gallery template selected, add an Image control and position it below the
       OverviewText label.
      3. Confirm that the Image property of the Image control is set to:
        Power Apps
        ThisItem.Image
      4. Set the Y property of the Image control to position it dynamically below the overview text:
         Power Apps
         OverviewText.Y + OverviewText.Height + 5
        Apply the same concept for any additional controls: set each control's Y property based on
        the Y and Height of the control immediately above it.
     Next steps
        Add and configure a gallery control
        Best practices for working with galleries
        Get started with formulas in canvas apps
      Last updated on 05/14/2026
     Best practices for using the Gallery control
     in canvas apps
     The Gallery is the only control in canvas apps that can create other controls. It has its own scope.
     These advanced features can lead to unexpected behavior when the Gallery isn't configured
     correctly. This article covers best practices and recommendations when you work with Gallery
     controls.
       Tip
      Consider using modern controls in your gallery items where possible. Modern controls are
      designed to minimize common pitfalls like unintended OnChange triggers and provide better
      accessibility and styling options. You can also use Copilot in Power Apps to generate a
      gallery layout and data connection automatically.
     Don't change gallery items from within the gallery
     It's easy to create unstable behavior if OnChange or OnSelect of child controls modifies the Items
     of the parent gallery. For example, a Text input in a gallery can have its OnChange property set to:
      Power Fx
      Patch(GalleryData, ThisItem, {Name: TextInput.Text})
     This is usually fine. Most controls only trigger OnChange when users change their value directly.
     However, the following controls can cause issues because they also trigger OnChange when the
     system changes their value:
        Combo box
        Date picker
        Slider
        Toggle
     For example, when ComboBox.DefaultSelectedItems changes, it triggers OnChange. Consider a
     Combo box in a Gallery with DefaultSelectedItems set to First(ThisItem.A) and its OnChange
     property set to:
      Power Fx
      UpdateIf(GalleryData, Name = ThisItem.Name, {
          A: Table({
              B: First(Self.SelectedItems).B
          })
      })
     This expression updates a record in the gallery's data source that matches the current item's
     name, replacing the A column with a new table.
     This causes an infinite loop. When the user changes the Combo box value, OnChange fires, which
     updates GalleryData, which changes DefaultSelectedItems (because First(ThisItem.A) refers to
     a new table), which triggers OnChange again—and so on.
     To avoid infinite loops, use modern controls or other controls that don't trigger OnChange when
     their data changes.
     Slow performance from patching items
     Even if you avoid unwanted loops, patching or updating Gallery items can be slow if the gallery
     has many items. The Gallery doesn't just update the rows associated with the changed records—
     in some cases, it reloads all items. This happens because of the loosely structured nature of data
     sources, which makes it hard for the Gallery to determine whether a single record or the entire
     data source changed.
     Gallery.Selected can change unexpectedly
     The Selected property of the Gallery is a moving target. It can change without user interaction
     when any of the following occur:
        Gallery.Default changes
        Gallery.Items changes
        Data sources are refreshed or updated
     If you want a stable copy of the item the user selected, store it in a variable. For example, set the
     OnSelect property of the Gallery to:
      Power Fx
      Set(CurrentItem, Self.Selected)
     Then use CurrentItem elsewhere in the app to refer to the most recently user-selected item,
     rather than the system-updated Selected property.
     Don't use Gallery.Selected in a child control's event
     The Selected property of the Gallery changes when a user selects an item. However, this event
     isn't synchronized with child control events. Referring to Gallery.Selected in a child control's
     events can lead to unexpected results.
     For example, when a user selects a Checkbox in a Gallery, the following events occur in an
     unspecified order:
         Checkbox.OnSelect
         Checkbox.OnCheck
         Gallery.Selected changes to the newly selected row
     Because the order of these events isn't fixed, using Gallery.Selected in Checkbox.OnSelect might
     still refer to the previously selected row.
     To avoid timing issues, don't use Gallery.Selected in child control events. If you must respond to
     changes in Gallery.Selected, use the Gallery's own OnSelect event.
     Ensure that the Gallery knows the schema of its items
     Setting Gallery.Items to a variable or the output of a Canvas component can produce
     unexpected results, depending on when the variable is set or changed.
     Galleries must know the schema of their Items when the app loads. A schema (also called a
     shape) defines the name and type of columns in a data source. For example, this table:
      Power Fx
      [{A: "abc", B: 123}, {A: "def", B: 456}]
     has a schema with a text column A and a number column B.
     Most of the time, the Gallery can infer the schema from the data source and expressions used in
     the app. However, if the Items property is set to the output of a Canvas component or Import
     control, the Gallery can't determine its schema at load time so the output table might not be
     available yet, and the schema might change. The Gallery won't render any items when it doesn't
     know its schema.
     The same issue can occur when Items is set to a variable that isn't initialized when the app loads.
     As a workaround, hint the expected schema to the Gallery using a variable. Set App.OnStart to:
      Power Fx
      If(false, Set(GalleryData, [{A: "abc", B: 123}]), Set(GalleryData, []))
     This lets the system infer the schema of GalleryData. Set the Items property of the Gallery to
     GalleryData, then update it to the actual data source as needed.
     Don't assume AllItems contains all items of its dataset
     The AllItems property contains the items currently loaded into the visible area of the gallery—not
     all items in Items. AllItems can change as the user scrolls to load more items. Typically, this
     property is used to access values of child controls that the user is currently interacting with, which
     guarantees those items are loaded.
     Don't refer to an item in AllItems if you're not sure whether the user has scrolled to that item.
     Similarly, AllItemsCount is the count of items loaded into view, not the total record count in
     Items. To get the total number of records in Items, use CountRows(<expression used for Items
     property>).
     Next steps
        Add a gallery to show a list of items
        Understand gallery dynamic sizing
        Isolate issues in canvas apps
        Overview of modern controls in canvas apps
      Last updated on 05/14/2026
             Show, edit, or add a record in a canvas
             app
             Article • 01/19/2023
             In a canvas app, add and configure a Display form control to show all fields in a record.
             You can also add and configure an Edit form control to edit any field in a record, add a
             record, and save your changes back to a data source.
             Prerequisites
                  Learn how to add and configure a control in Power Apps.
                  Download this Excel file   , which contains sample data for this tutorial.
                  Upload the Excel file to a cloud-storage account, such as OneDrive for Business.
                  Create or open an app for phones, add a connection to the FlooringEstimates
                  table in the Excel file.
                  You can add a form to a tablet app, but it won't match this article because the form
                  will have three columns by default.
                  If you open an existing app, add a screen to it.
             Add a form, and show data
                1. On a blank screen, add a Drop down control, and name it ChooseProduct.
                     ７ Note
                     If you're not sure how to add a control, rename it, or set a property, see Add
                     and configure controls.
                2. On the Properties tab of the right-hand pane, set Items to FlooringEstimates and
                  Value to Name.
        The list shows names of flooring products from the data source.
       3. Add an Edit form control, move it below ChooseProduct, and then resize the form
        to cover most of the screen.
         ７ Note
         This topic describes the Edit form control, but similar principles apply to the
         Display form control.
        4. Set the form's DataSource property to FlooringEstimates and its Item property to
          this formula:
          ChooseProduct.Selected
          This formula specifies that, after you finish configuring the form, it will show the
          record that the user selects in ChooseProduct.
        5. On the Properties tab of the right-hand pane, select Edit fields.
        6. In the Fields pane, select Add field, select the check box for each field, and then
          select Add.
        7. Select the ellipsis (...) next to Add field, select Collapse all, and then drag Name to
          the top of the list.
           The Edit form control reflects your change.
       Set the card type for a field
         1. In the Fields pane, expand the Price field by selecting its down arrow.
         2. Open the Control type list, and then select Edit slider.
          In the form, the Price field shows a Slider control instead of a Text input control.
         3. (optional) Follow the same process to change the control for the Overview field to
          an Edit multi-line text control.
       (Edit form only) Save changes
         1. Rename the form EditForm.
         2. Add a Button control, and set its OnSelect property to this formula:
          SubmitForm(EditForm)
         3. Press F5 to open Preview, change the name of a product, and then select the
          button that you created.
          The SubmitForm function saves your changes to the data source.
         4. (optional) Close Preview by pressing Esc (or by selecting the close icon in the
          upper-right corner).
       Next steps
       Learn more about working with forms and formulas.
         Understand canvas-app forms
         Add three types of controls to a canvas app so that the user can browse for a record, display
         details about that record, and edit or create a record:
                                                                                                   ﾉ Expand table
          Activity         Control        Description
          Browse for a     Gallery        Filter, sort, search, and scroll through records in a data source, and select a
          record           control        specific record. Display only a few fields from each record to show several
                                          records at a time, even on a small screen.
          Show details     Display        For a single record, display many or all fields in that record.
          of a record      form
                           control
          Edit or create   Edit form      Update one or more fields in a single record (or create a record starting with
          a record         control        default values), and save those changes back to the underlying data source.
         Put each control on a different screen to make them easier to distinguish:
         As this article describes, combine these controls with formulas to create the overall user
         experience.
        Prerequisites
             Sign up for Power Apps, and then sign in    by providing the same credentials that you used
             to sign up.
             Learn how to configure a control in Power Apps.
        Explore a generated app
        Power Apps can automatically generate an app based on a data source that you specify. Each app
        contains three screens with the controls described earlier and formulas that connect them. Run
        these apps "out of the box," customize them for your specific goals, or examine how they work so
        that you can learn useful concepts that apply to your own apps. In the following sections, inspect
        the screens, controls, and formulas that drive a generated app.
        Browse screen
        This screen features these key formulas:
                                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
           Control                  Supported behavior                                Formula
           BrowseGallery1           Display records from the Assets data              The Items property of the gallery is set
                                    source.                                           to a formula that's based on the
                                                                                      Assets data source.
           ImageNewItem1            Display the Edit and Create screen with           The OnSelect property of the image is
                                    each field set to a default value, so that the    set to this formula:
                                    user can easily create a record.                  NewForm( EditForm1 );
                                                                                      Navigate( EditScreen1, None )
           NextArrow1 (in the       Display the Details screen to view many or        The OnSelect property of the arrow is
           gallery)                 all fields of the currently selected record.      set to this formula:
                                                                                      Navigate( DetailScreen1, None )
          The primary control on this screen, BrowseGallery1, covers most of the area of the screen. The
          user can scroll through the gallery to find a specific record to display more fields or to update.
          Set the Items property of a gallery to show records from a data source in it. For example, set that
          property to Assets to show records from a data source of that name.
             ７ Note
             In a generated app, Items is set to a significantly more complicated formula by default so
             that the user can sort and search for records. You'll learn how to build that formula later in
             this topic; the simpler version is enough for now.
          Instead of finding a record to display or edit, the user can create a record by selecting the "+"
          symbol above the gallery. Create this effect by adding an Image control, showing a "+" symbol in
          it, and setting its OnSelect property to this formula:
          NewForm( EditForm1 ); Navigate( EditScreen1, None )
          This formula opens the Edit and Create screen, which features an Edit form control named
          EditForm1. The formula also switches that form into New mode, in which the form shows default
          values from the data source so that the user can easily create a record from scratch.
          To examine any control that appears in BrowseGallery1, select that control in the first section of
          that gallery, which serves as a template for all other sections. For example, select the middle
          Label control on the left edge:
    In this example, the control's Text property is set to ThisItem.AssignedTo, which is a field in the
    Assets data source. The Text property of the other three Label controls in the gallery are set to
    similar formulas, and each control shows a different field in the data source.
    Select the Shape control (the arrow), and confirm that its OnSelect property is set to this formula:
    Navigate( DetailScreen1, None )
    If the user finds a record in BrowseGallery1, the user can select the arrow for that record to show
    more information about it in DetailScreen1. By selecting an arrow, the user changes the value of
    the Selected property of BrowseGallery1. In this app, that property determines which record
    appears in not only DetailScreen1 but also, if the user decides to update the record, the Edit and
    Create screen.
    Detail screen
         This screen features these key formulas:
                                                                                                     ﾉ
                                                                                                         Expand table
           Control             Supported behavior                        Formula
           DetailForm1         Displays a record in the Assets data      Set the DataSource property to Assets.
                               source
           DetailForm1         Determines which record to display. In    Set the Item property of this control to this
                               a generated app, displays the record      value:
                               that the user selected in the gallery.    BrowseGallery1.Selected
           Card controls       In a Display form control, displays a     Set the DataField property to the name of a
                               single field in a record.                 field, enclosed in double quotation marks (for
                                                                         example, "Name").
           ImageBackArrow1     When the user selects this control,       Set the OnSelect property to this formula:
                               opens BrowseScreen1.                      Back()
           ImageDelete1        When the user selects this control,       Set the OnSelect property to this formula:
                               deletes a record.                         Remove( Assets, BrowseGallery1.Selected )
           Control              Supported behavior                         Formula
           ImageEdit1           When the user selects this control,        Set the OnSelect property to this formula:
                                opens the Edit and Create screen to        Navigate( EditScreen1, None )
                                the current record.
         At the top of the screen, three images sit outside of DetailForm1 and act as buttons,
         orchestrating between the three screens of the app.
         DetailForm1 dominates this screen and displays the record that the user selected in the gallery
         (because the form's Item property is set to BrowseGallery1.Selected). The DataSource property
         of the form also provides metadata about the data source, such as a user-friendly display name
         for each field.
         DetailForm1 contains several Card controls. You can select either the Card control itself or the
         control that it contains to discover additional information.
         The DataField property of a Card control determines which field the card displays. In this case,
         that property is set to AssetID. The card contains a Label control for which the Text property is
         set to Parent.Default. This control shows the Default value for the card, which is set through the
         DataField property.
         In a generated app, Card controls are locked by default. When a card is locked, you can't modify
         some properties, such as DataField, and the formula bar is unavailable for those properties. This
    restriction helps ensure that your customizations don't break the basic functionality of the
    generated app. However, you can change some properties of a card and its controls in the right-
    hand pane:
    In the right-hand pane, you can select which fields to display and in which kind of control each
    field displays.
    Edit/Create screen
         This screen features these key formulas:
                                                                                                      ﾉ
                                                                                                          Expand table
           Control          Supported behavior                          Formula
           EditForm1        Displays a record in the Assets data        Set the DataSource property to Assets.
                            source.
           EditForm1        Determines which record to display. In a    Set the Item property to this value:
                            generated app, displays the record that     BrowseGallery1.Selected
                            the user selected in BrowseScreen1.
           Card controls    In a Edit form control, provides controls   Set the DataField property to the name of a
                            so that the user can edit one or more       field, enclosed in double quotation marks (for
                            fields in a record.                         example, "Name").
           ImageCancel1     When the user selects this control,         Set the OnSelect property to this formula:
                            discards any changes in progress, and       ResetForm( EditForm1 ); Back()
                            opens the Details screen.
           ImageAccept1     When the user selects this control,         Set the OnSelect property to this formula:
                            submits changes to the data source.         SubmitForm( EditForm1 )
           Control          Supported behavior                           Formula
           EditForm1        If changes are accepted, returns to the      Set the OnSuccess property to this formula:
                            previous screen.                             Back()
           EditForm1        If changes aren't accepted, remain on the    Leave the OnFailure property blank.
                            current screen so that the user can fix any
                            issues and try to submit again.
           LblFormError1    If changes aren't accepted, shows an         Set the Text property to this value:
                            error message.                               EditForm1.Error
         As in the Details screen, a form control, named EditForm1, dominates the Edit and Create screen.
         In addition, the Item property of EditForm1 is set to BrowseGallery1.Selected, so the form
         displays the record that the user selected in BrowseScreen1. While the Details screen shows each
         field as read-only, the user can update the value of one or more fields by using the controls in
         EditForm1. It also uses the DataSource property to access metadata about this data source, such
         as the user-friendly display name for each field and the location where changes should be saved.
         If the user selects the "X" icon to cancel an update, the ResetForm function discards any unsaved
         changes, and the Back function opens the Details screen. Both the Details screen and the Edit
         and Create screen show the same record until the user selects a different one on BrowseScreen1.
         The fields in that record remain set to the values that were most recently saved, not any changes
         that the user made and then abandoned.
         If the user changes one or more values in the form and then selects the "checkmark" icon, the
         SubmitForm function sends the user's changes to the data source.
                If the changes are successfully saved, the form's OnSuccess formula runs, and the Back()
                function opens the detail screen to show the updated record.
                If the changes aren't successfully saved, the form's OnFailure formula runs, but it doesn't
                change anything because it's blank. The Edit and Create screen remains open so that the
                user can either cancel the changes or fix the error. LblFormError1 shows a user-friendly error
                message, to which the form's Error property is set.
         As with a Display form control, an Edit form control contains Card controls, which contain other
         controls that show different fields in a record:
    In the previous image, the selected card shows the AssetID field and contains a Text input
    control so that the user can edit the value of that field. (In contrast, the detail screen shows the
    same field in a Label control, which is read-only.) The Text input control has a Default property,
    which is set to Parent.Default. If the user were creating a record instead of editing one, that
    control would show an initial value that the user can change for the new record.
    In the right-hand pane, you can show or hide each card, rearrange them, or configure them to
    show fields in different types of controls.
     Build an app from scratch
     By understanding how Power Apps generates an app, you can build one yourself that uses the
     same building blocks and formulas discussed earlier in this topic.
     Identify test data
     To get the most from this article, start with a data source with which you can experiment. It
     should contain test data that you can read and update without concern.
      ７ Note
      If you use a list created using Microsoft Lists, a SharePoint library, or an Excel table that
      contains column names with spaces as your data source, Power Apps will replace the spaces
      with "_x0020_". For example, "Column Name" in SharePoint or Excel will appear as
      "Column_x0020_Name" in Power Apps when displayed in the data layout or used in a
      formula.
     To follow the rest of this article exactly, create a list named "Ice Cream" that contains this data:
       Create an app from blank, for phones, and connect it to your data source.
         ７ Note
         Tablet apps are very similar, but you may want a different screen layout to make the
         most of the extra screen space.
       The examples in the rest of the topic are based on a data source named Ice Cream.
     Browse records
     Get a quick piece of information from a record by finding it in a gallery on a browse screen.
      1. Add a Vertical gallery, and change the layout to Title only.
     2. Set the gallery's Items property to Ice Cream.
     3. Set the Text property of the first label in the gallery to ThisItem.Title if it's set to something
      else.
      The label now shows the value in the Title field for each record.
     4. Resize the gallery to fill the screen, and set its TemplateSize property to 60.
      The screen resembles this example, which shows all records in the data source:
     View details
     If the gallery doesn't show the information that you want, select the arrow for a record to open
     the details screen. A Display form control on that screen shows more, possibly all, fields for the
     record that you selected.
     The Display form control uses two properties to display the record:
        DataSource property. The name of the data source that holds the record. This property
        populates the right-hand panel with fields and determines the display name and data type
        (string, number, date, etc.) of each field.
        Item property. The record to display. This property is often connected to the Selected
        property of the Gallery control so that the user can select a record in the Gallery control
        and then drill into that record.
     When the DataSource property is set, you can add and remove fields through the right-hand
     pane and change how they're displayed.
     On this screen, users can't intentionally or accidentally change any values of the record. The
     Display form control is a read-only control, so it won't modify a record.
     To add a Display form control:
       1. Add a screen, and then add a Display form control to it
       2. Set the DataSource property of the form control to 'Ice Cream'.
     In the right-hand pane, you can select the fields to display on your screen and which type of card
     to display for each field. As you make changes in the right-hand pane, the DataField property on
     each Card control is set to the field that the user will interact with. Your screen should resemble
     this example:
    Finally, we need to connect the Display form control to the Gallery control so that we can look at
    details for a specific record. As soon as we complete setting the Item property, the first record
    from the gallery will appear in our form.
      Set the Item property of the Display form control to Gallery1.Selected.
      The details for the selected item appear in the form.
    Great! We now turn to navigation: how a user opens the details screen from the gallery screen
    and opens the gallery screen from the details screen.
      Add a Button control to the screen, set its Text property to show Back, and set its OnSelect
      property to Back().
      This formula returns the user back to the gallery when they finish viewing details.
    Now, let's return to the Gallery control and add some navigation to our detail screen.
     1. Switch to the first screen, which is hosting our Gallery control, and select the arrow in the
      first item in the gallery.
     2. Set the OnSelect property of the shape to this formula:
      Navigate( Screen2, None )
     3. Select the play button (or press F5), and then select an arrow in the gallery to show the
      details for an item.
     4. Select the Back button to return to the gallery of products, and then press Esc.
    Editing details
    Finally, our last core activity is changing the contents of a record, which users accomplish in an
    Edit form control.
    The Edit form control uses two properties to display and edit the record:
      DataSource property. The name of the data source that holds the record. Just as with the
      Display form control, this property populates the right-hand panel with fields and
      determines the display name and data type (string, number, date, etc.) for each field. This
      property also determines whether each field's value is valid before submitting it to the
      underlying data source.
      Item property. The record to edit, which is often connected to the Selected property of the
      Gallery control. That way, you can select a record in the Gallery control, show it in the
      details screen, and edit it in the Edit and Create screen.
    To add an Edit form control:
     1. Add a screen, add an Edit form control, and then set the form's DataSource property to 'Ice
      Cream'.
     2. Set the Item property to Gallery1.Selected.
    You can now select the fields to display on your screen. You can also select which type of card to
    display for each field. As you make changes in the right-hand pane, the DataField property on
    each Card control is set to the field your user will interact with. Your screen should resemble this
    example:
    These two properties are the same as the properties on the Display form control. And with these
    alone, we can display the details of a record.
    The Edit form control goes further by offering the SubmitForm function to write back changes to
    the data source. You use this with a button or image control to save a user's changes.
      Add a Button control, set its Text property to show Save, and set its OnSelect property to
      this formula:
      SubmitForm( Form1 )
    To add navigation to and from this screen:
     1. Add another Button control, set its Text property to show Cancel, and set its OnSelect
      property to this formula:
      ResetForm( Form1 ); Back()
      This formula discards any unsaved edits and opens the previous screen.
     2. Set the OnSuccess property of the form to Back().
      When updates are successfully saved, the previous screen (in this case, the details screen)
      opens automatically.
     3. On the Display screen, add a button, set its Text property to show Edit, and set its OnSelect
      property to this formula:
      Navigate( Screen3, None )
     You've built a basic app with three screens for viewing and entering data. To try it out, show the
     gallery screen, and then select the play button (or press F5 on your keyboard). The pink dot
     indicates where the user selects the screen at each step.
     Create a record
     The user interacts with the same Edit form to both update and create records. When the user
     wants to create a record, the NewForm function switches the form to New mode.
     When the form is in New mode, the value of each field is set to the defaults of the data source.
     The record that's provided to the form's Item property is ignored.
     When the user is ready to save the new record, SubmitForm runs. After the form is successfully
     submitted, the form is switched back to EditMode.
     On the first screen, you'll add a New button:
       1. On the screen with the gallery, add a Button control.
       2. Set the button's Text property to New and its OnSelect property to this formula:
        NewForm( Form1 ); Navigate( Screen3, None )
        This formula switches the Edit form control on Screen3 to New mode and opens that
        screen so that the user can fill it in.
     When the Edit and Create screen opens, the form is empty, ready for the user to add an item.
     When the user selects the Save button, the SubmitForm function ensures that a record is created
     instead of being updated. If the user selects the Cancel button, the ResetForm function switches
     the form back to Edit mode, and the Back function opens the screen for browsing the gallery.
     Delete a record
       1. On the Display screen, add a button, and set its Text property to show Delete..
      2. Set the button's OnSelect property to this formula:
        Remove( 'Ice Cream', Gallery1.Selected ); Back()
     Handling errors
     In this app, an error occurs when the value of a field is not valid, a required field is blank, you're
     disconnected from the network, or any number of other problems pop up.
     If SubmitForm fails for any reason, the Error property of the Edit form control contains an error
     message to show the user. With this information, the user should be able to correct the issue and
     resubmit the change, or they can cancel the update.
      1. On the Edit and Create screen, add a Label control, and move it just below the Save button.
        Any error will be easy to see after the user selects this control to save changes.
      2. Set the Text property of the Label control to show Form1.Error.
    In an app that Power Apps generates from data, the AutoHeight property on this control is set to
    true so that no space is consumed if no error occurs. The Height and Y properties of the Edit
    form control are also adjusted dynamically to account for this control growing when an error
    occurs. For more details, generate an app from existing data, and inspect these properties. The
    text-box control for errors is very short when no error has occurred, you may need to open the
    Advanced view (available on the View tab) to select this control.
     Refresh data
     The data source is refreshed whenever the user opens the app, but the user might want to refresh
     the records in the gallery without closing the app. Add a Refresh button so that the user can
     select it to manually refresh the data:
       1. On the screen with the Gallery control, add a Button control and set its Text property to
        show Refresh.
       2. Set the OnSelect property of this control to this formula:
        Refresh( 'Ice Cream' )
     Search and sort the gallery
     In the app that Power Apps generated from data, we neglected to discuss two controls at the top
     of the Browse screen. By using these controls, the user can search for one or more records, sort
     the list of records in ascending or descending order, or both.
    When the user selects the sort button, the sort order of the gallery reverses. To create this
    behavior, we use a context variable to track the direction in which the gallery is sorted. When the
    user selects the button, the variable is updated, and the direction reverses. The OnSelect property
    of the sort button is set to this formula: UpdateContext( {SortDescending1: !SortDescending1} )
    The UpdateContext function creates the SortDescending1 context variable if it doesn't already
    exist. The function will read the value of the variable and set it to the logical opposite by using
    the ! operator. If the value is true, it becomes false. If the value is false, it becomes true.
    The formula for the Items property of the Gallery control uses this context variable, along with
    the text in the TextSearchBox1 control:
     Power Fx
     Sort( 
       If( IsBlank(TextSearchBox1.Text),
          Assets,
             Filter( Assets, TextSearchBox1.Text in Text(ApproverEmail) ) 
       ),
       ApproverEmail,
         If(SortDescending1, Descending, Ascending) 
     )
     Let's break this down:
        On the outside, we have the Sort function, which takes three arguments: a table, a field on
        which to sort, and the direction in which to sort.
         The sort direction is taken from the context variable that toggles when the user selects
         the ImageSortUpDown1 control. The true/false value is translated to the constants
         Descending and Ascending.
         The field to sort on is fixed to ApproverEmail. If you change the fields that appear in the
         gallery, you'll need to change this argument too.
        On the inside, we have the Filter function, which takes a table as an argument and an
        expression to evaluate for each record.
         The table is the raw Assets data source, which is the starting point before filtering or
         sorting.
         The expression searches for an instance of the string in TextSearchBox1 within the
         ApproverEmail field. Again, if you change the fields that appear in the gallery, you'll also
         need to update this argument.
         If TextSearchBox1 is empty, the user wants to show all records, and the Filter function is
         bypassed.
     This is but one example; you can craft your own formula for the Items property, depending on
     the needs of your app, by composing Filter, Sort, and other functions and operators together.
     Screen design
     So far, we haven't discussed other ways to distribute controls across screens. That's because you
     have many options, and the best selection depends on your specific app's needs.
     Because real estate on phone screens is so limited, you probably want to browse, display, and
     edit/create on different screens. In this topic, the Navigate and Back functions open each screen.
     On a tablet, you can browse, display, and edit/create on two or even one screen. For the latter, no
     Navigate or Back function would be required.
     If the user is working on the same screen, you need to be careful that the user can't change the
     selection in the Gallery and potentially lose edits in the Edit form control. To keep the user from
     selecting a different record when changes to another record haven't been saved yet, set the
     Disabled property of the gallery to this formula:
     EditForm.Unsaved
      Troubleshoot common form issues
      SubmitForm doesn't save changes
      If SubmitForm runs but changes aren't saved, check the following:
         Validation errors: The form's Error property contains an error message when submission
         fails. Add a Label control and set its Text property to Form1.Error to surface the error to the
         user.
         Missing required fields: If the data source marks fields as required, the form won't submit
         until those fields have values. Check the DataSourceInfo function or validate fields with
         Validate.
         Permissions: Make sure the signed-in user has write access to the data source (for example,
         the SharePoint list or Dataverse table).
         Data source connection: If the app lost its connection, SubmitForm can't reach the data
         source. Use the Connection signal to check connectivity and display a message to the user.
      Gallery doesn't show new or updated records after saving
      After SubmitForm succeeds, the form's data source is automatically refreshed. However, if the
      gallery is connected to a different variable or filtered view, it may not immediately reflect the
      change. Use the Refresh function in the form's OnSuccess formula to force the gallery to reload:
       Power Fx
       SubmitForm(Form1);
       Refresh(MyDataSource)
      Form shows data from the wrong record
      The form's Item property controls which record is displayed. Make sure it's set to the Selected
      property of your gallery (for example, Gallery1.Selected). If it's set to a static record or a
      variable, the form may show stale data.
      Form fields are empty after switching records in the gallery
      If the form's Item property is correctly set to Gallery1.Selected and fields still appear empty,
      make sure the form is in Edit mode, not New mode. Calling NewForm switches the form to New
      mode and clears all fields. Call EditForm to return the form to Edit mode before navigating to the
      edit screen.
     Column names show x0020 in the form
     If your SharePoint list or Excel table has column names with spaces, Power Apps encodes those
     spaces as _x0020_ in formulas. This is expected. Rename the column in your data source to
     remove the spaces, or continue using the encoded name in your formulas.
     Related information
        Display form and Edit form controls reference
        SubmitForm, EditForm, NewForm, ResetForm functions
        Understand data sources for canvas apps
        Add a gallery control to a canvas app
        Add and configure controls in canvas apps
        Understand variables in canvas apps
      Last updated on 05/04/2026
       Understand data-form layout for canvas
       apps
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Easily create an attractive and efficient form when you build a canvas app in Power
       Apps. For example, consider this basic form for recording sales orders:
       In this tutorial, we'll walk through the steps to create this form. We'll also look at some
       advanced topics, such as dynamic sizing of fields to fill available space.
       Before you start
       If you're new to Power Apps (or have only generated apps automatically), you'll want to
       build an app from scratch before you dive into this article. By building an app from
       scratch, you'll become familiar with required concepts, such as adding data sources and
       controls, that are mentioned but not explained in this article.
       This article is written as though you have a data source that's named Sales order and
       that contains the fields in the previous graphic. If you have a Power Apps per user, per
       app, or trial license and system administrator or system customizer permissions, you can
       create a table in Microsoft Dataverse and add similar fields.
       Add a gallery
         1. Create a tablet app from scratch, and add your data source.
          Everything discussed in this article also applies to phone layouts, but phone apps
          often have only one vertical column.
         2. Add a vertical Gallery control, and set its Items property to 'Sales order'.
          (optional) To match the examples in this tutorial, change the gallery's Layout to
          show only Title and subtitle.
         3. In the gallery, click or tap SO004.
          This record will appear in the form that you build by following steps later in this
          article.
       Add a title bar
         1. Add a blank screen where you'll put the form.
          Outside of this tutorial, you can put the Gallery and Edit form controls on the
          same screen, but you'll have more room to work with if you put them on separate
         screens.
        2. At the top of the new screen, add a Label control, and set its Text property to this
         expression:  
         "Sales Order " & Gallery1.Selected.SalesOrderId
         The label shows the sales-order number of the record that you selected in the
         gallery.
        3. (optional) Format the label as follows:
         a. Set its Align property to Center.
         b. Set its Size property to 20.
         c. Set its Fill property to Navy.
         d. Set its Color property to White.
         e. Set its Width property to Parent.Width.
         f. Set its X and Y properties to 0.
      Add a form
        1. Add an Edit form control, and then move and resize it to fill the screen under the
         label.
         In the next step, you'll connect the form control to the Sales order data source by
         using the right-hand pane, not the formula bar. If you use the formula bar, the
         form won't show any fields by default. You can always show any fields that you
         want by selecting one or more check boxes in the right-hand pane.
        2. In the right-hand pane, click or tap the down arrow next to No data source
         selected, and then click or tap Sales order.
         A default set of fields from the Sales order data source will appear in a simple,
         three-column layout. However, many are blank, and they may take a few moments
         to settle into their final positions.
        3. Set the form's Item property to Gallery1.Selected.
