       3. Enter the required information and in the Details section, set the Teams meeting
        toggle to, Yes.
       ） Important
       For the join link to be created successfully, the user enabling the meeting for Teams
       needs to be the meeting organizer. The organizer field is not exposed by default on
       the appointment form but the value defaults to the user who creates the meeting.
      4. When you're done, select Save.
       ７ Note
        It may take a couple of minutes for the meeting to sync with Outlook and for the
        meeting link to appear in the appoitnment.
       Join a Teams meeting from an appointment
        1. Open an appointment activity.
        2. Choose one of the following ways to join the meeting:
            On the command bar select, Join Teams Meeting.
            From the Details section, select the Join Teams Meeting link.
            Scroll down the Description section of the appointment and select, Click here
            to join the meeting.
        3. Follow the instructions on your screen and choose how you want to join the Teams
         meeting.
                ７ Note
                For the meeting to synchronize from Dynamics 365 to the user's calendar in
                Microsoft Outlook and Teams, the user needs to be configured for appointment,
                contact, and task synchronization.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
      Known issues about activities
      ﾃ Summarize this article for me
      Learn about known issues that may occur with activities in model-driven apps.
         On appointment grids, all-day appointments may show incorrect values for Start Time
         and End Time. This issue is limited to the grid control showing appointment records, as
         forms and calendar control show correct Start Time and End Time for all-day
         appointments.
         To fix this issue, use the calendar control as the default control to view appointments.
         The process that checks for conflicts for the people and resources on an appointment is
         triggered only when a valid Dynamics 365 solution is installed on the environment, as this
         requires a few scheduling-related tables to be a part of the environment. Appointments
         created in an environment without a relevant Dynamics 365 solution installed have an
         Open status, rather than the Scheduled status. For more information on the scheduling
         tables and the license required, see Restricted tables for create, update, and delete
         operations.
         When you use the calendar control view for appointments and navigate through time
         periods (like moving from Day to Week view or using the navigation arrows), selecting
         Edit filters and then Apply can result in duplicate Start Time and End Time filter
         conditions. This duplication causes appointments not to display in the view. To resolve
         this issue, select Edit filters, manually remove one set of the duplicated Start Time and
         End Time filters, and then select Apply. Alternatively, work in the grid view instead of the
         calendar view.
         Error message Unable to find one-to-many relationship, entity: [entity name],
         referencing entity: activityparty
         This transient error appears when saving records with relationships to activity parties. The
         root cause of the issue is that schema information about the relationship is not loaded
         when you save the record. The work around is to try to save the record again because the
         schema information will be loaded eventually. If this error occurs due to custom scripts on
         the page, the script developer should catch the error and retry after a short delay.
      Last updated on 02/16/2026
       Understand the email experience
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Having the ability to communicate effectively with customers can lead to increased sales
       and customer satisfaction. The email capability in customer engagement apps
       empowers users with the ability to respond and provide timely customer interaction
       effortlessly through quick email access with enhanced features and functionality. You
       can compose, reply, and review email, as well as quickly attach and send images that
       add value and support to customer communication using streamlined functionality. You
       can also ensure interactions between you and your customers are consistent and
       professional by using email templates with rich text and images.
       You can work in either the navigate-to email or the contextual email experience. The
       difference between the navigate-to vs. contextual email experience is where the email
       displays on your screen. Both experiences use the same Enhanced Email form, which is
       enabled by default out-of-the-box (OOTB).
        ） Important
           Contextual email is also referred to as enhanced email. Please be aware that
           there isn't any special functionality associated with the contextual email
           experience, other than it is a pop-up experience.
         Navigate-to email experience: Always displays in a new screen.
         Contextual email experience: Can only be initiated from the timeline, displays
         email in a pop-up screen, and allows you to:
           Move to different pages without losing email content.
           Minimize the email window to return to the records you were working on.
           Simultaneously view, compose, and reply to five emails in pop-up windows
           when enabled.
       The following highlights the difference between the "navigate-to" and contextual email
       experience in the timeline based on how your system administrator has configured your
       email:
        1. Select Create a timeline record.
                   2. Select Email.
                     Depending on the experience you are using, your email will display as follows:
                                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
                       Navigate-to email experience              -  Contextual email experience
                       The "navigate-to" email will display in      The contextual email will display in a pop-up
                       a new screen.                                window on your current screen.
                        ） Important
                               The pop-up window only opens when the height and width of your
                               screen size is at least 400 x 650 pixels or greater. If lower, "navigate-to"
                               email will be the default experience.
                               The contextual email experience is available only for timeline.
                        ７ Note
                               If you use customized forms in email, you will still be able to see and use
                               them. The Enhanced Email form showcases various email capabilities
                            and functionality.
              For more information, see View, compose and respond to email.
              See also
              Set up enhanced email
              Insert an email template
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
     View, compose and respond to email
     Users can more quickly view, create, and send emails with streamlined access. Rich text editing
     and drag-and-drop attachments help them compose and reply to messages.
     Access and view emails
     Legend
       1. Select Activities
       2. Select All Activities
       3. Under Activity Type select Email. The email list appears in the screen.
     Compose an email
     Email capabilities, like rich-text editing and drag-and-drop or copy-and-paste images enriches
     customer interactions when composing email.
     When enabled by your system administrator, you can access email from the top navigation bar.
     Compose an email
     1. Select Activities
     2. On the command bar, select Email. An email then opens in a new window where you can
      begin composing.
    Anatomy of an email form
    Legend
           1. From. The name displayed in the From field is automatically populated based on the user
              who is currently signed in.
           2. Expand. The Expand       icon allows you to compose your email in a full-screen view and
              minimize when done.
           3. Rich text editor. This tool bar helps you format emails. The editor is displayed as a single
              line that can be expanded to view the full list of editing features by default. For more
              information, see Use the rich text editor toolbar in email and Accessibility shortcuts for
              email. User Personalization. The      icon allows you to set the default font and font size for
              your emails. Once set, the Font and Font Size display these values by default.
           4. Body. The body is where you compose and/or reply to an email.
           5. Insert Signature. Use this command to personalize your message.
           6. Insert Template. This function is used to apply an email template.
              For more information, see Insert an email template.
                ７ Note
                The To box must contain a recipient to select a template.
           7. New Attachment. This command is used to add a file to your email.
           8. Attach File. This command uses the 'plus'     icon functionality to add attachments.
                ７ Note
                After you save your email, you can use Attach file and New Attachments
                interchangeably.
           9. Send. Select this icon    to Send your email.
                ） Important
                      The From and To fields are automatically populated based on the user and the
                      account and contact of the original record.
     View email sentiment
     After an administrator enables and configures email sentiment analysis, and ensures that the
     email form includes the Sentiment field, the customer sentiment card is displayed for incoming
     customer emails that meet the configured criteria.
     The customer sentiment card displays the following features:
        Current sentiment: The customer’s current sentiment. A sentiment intensity indicator in the
        corresponding colors is also displayed.
        Sentiment timeline: A visual representation that shows how the customer sentiment in the
        emails received changes across a period.
        The timeline displays indicators for up to six customer emails, including the current email.
        Customer service representatives can select historical sentiment and then select View email.
        The system shows the relevant email for that period and sentiment in a new tab.
        The Inbox view also displays the sentiment with the sentiment intensity indicator.
      ７ Note
      For emails received before the feature is enabled, the system doesn’t display the sentiment.
     Reply to an email
     The way you can reply to an email depends on where you are in your app.
     When enabled by your system administrator, the email option displays in the top navigation bar
     and in the activities command bar.
      ７ Note
      The best performance is achieved when the HTML content size is 1 MB or less. When your
      HTML content size exceeds 1 MB, you might notice slower response times for loading and
      editing content. By default, image content is referenced from the content HTML but isn't
      stored as part of the HTML content, so in the default configuration, images don't negatively
      impact performance.
     Enhanced recipient handling
     Users can perform the following actions only if the administrator added the Email Recipient
     control component to an email form:
        Drag and drop recipient names across To, CC, and BCC fields.
        View the recipient's email address along with their names.
        View the recipients' presence status and out-of-office messages.
        Resolve an unresolved email address faster. In the email editor, if there's an unresolved
        email address, the application displays a banner message and the Review option to map the
        email. Select the button to view and map an unresolved email address to an existing record.
         ７ Note
         You can't resolve an unresolved email address for a read-only email.
    Access email
    When you access email, there are a couple of options you can use.
      Option 1:
        Select Email on the command bar.
       ７ Note
       Email option will only appear in the drop-down list and the command bar when
       enabled by your system administrator.
      Option 2:
                  1. From the navigation bar, select the plus       icon.
                  2. Select Email from the drop-down menu.
         Set the default font and font size
         You can set the default font and font size for your email text. Perform the following steps:
               In the email editor, in the Rich text editor tool bar, select     .
               In User Personalization specify the Font and Font Size.
               Select Ok. The application defaults the values specified in the Font and Font Size fields of
               the rich text editor toolbar.
         If your administrator set a default font and font size, the application displays the set values in the
         Font and Font Size fields of the rich text editor toolbar.
         Reply to email in timeline
         When you reply to an email in the timeline, the command bar in the top-right corner provides
         you with reply options. When you select an option, your email automatically is set and opens in
         that state ready for you to begin your message.
         You can use the following command options when working with emails in the timeline.
            1. Reply. Use this command to reply directly the sender of the email you received.
            2. Reply All. Use this command to reply to everyone on an email you received.
            3. Forward. Use this command to forward the email to someone else.
         Download email
         Select Download to download emails as an .eml file.
          Last updated on 05/02/2026
       Attach a file to email
       Article • 02/01/2024
       The option to attach files to an email is a useful feature when you need to share
       additional information. Use the Attach file button on the command menu or the New
       Attachments button in the email body to attach files to the email.
        ） Important
           The default file size limit for an email file attachment is 5 MB. The size
           limitations on email file attachments can be increased by your system
           administrators.
           You can't attach files to sent email messages after they have been attempted
           for delivery through server-side synchronization.
       Work with attachments
       You can attach an unlimited number of files to an email; however, there are file size
       limitations that are managed by your system administrator.
       Enhanced email is the default email form, however you can switch forms by doing the
       following:
        1. Under the email subject name, select on the caret (v) next to Email
        2. A dropdown appears with a list of email form options you can choose from.
       File attachments display differently, depending on the email form you're working in. You
       can switch email forms without losing information.
       If you specify "attach" or "attachments" in the subject or the body of the email and you
       select Send without attaching a file, the application displays a warning message
       reminding you to attach a file.
        ） Important
           The warning message reminding you to attach a file is an early access feature.
           Early access features aren't meant for production use and may have restricted
           functionality. These features are available before an official release so that
           customers can get early access and provide feedback.
       Email form file attachment
         1. Email. This display confirms which email form you're working in.
         2. Attachment. This section displays a list of file attachments in a vertical view and
          only displays the first three attachments.
         3. File count. This displays when you have more files than what can be viewed and
          allows you to see the total number of attached files on the left side under the last
          attachment with the option to page over to see more files.
       Enhanced email form file attachment
        1. Enhanced Email. This display confirms you're working in the Enhanced email form.
        2. Attached files. This section displays all your email attachments in a tile view above
         your message horizontally. The defaulted setting for the maximum number of files
         that can display is five attachments before displaying the page forward
         functionality.
        3. File count. This displays when you have files that occupy more than two rows and
         allows you to see the total number of attached files on the left side under the last
         attachment with the option to page over to see more files.
        4. Attachment Commands. This allows you to use the select, select all, sort, delete,
         and download functionality when working with your file attachments.
      Work with the attachment command bar
      When you’ve attached one or more files to a message, you can manage them using the
      file attachment commands.
      Select commands
      Select commands allow you to select individual files or multiple files at once.
      Legend
        1. Select All. This command is located on the right, above your attached files and
         allows you to select all file attachments at once.
          ７ Note
          Select All only selects files that are visible. If you have multiple pages of file
          attachments, you will need to go to that page and select those files
          independently.
        2. Tile Color Transparency. The background color of selected file attachments
         changes to light grey to identify which files have been selected.
         3. Check box You can also verify which files have been selected by viewing whether
          the checkbox in the top-right corner of the file attachment is selected.
       Formatting of file attachments in email can be realigned based on the device being used
       and format it's being worked in.
         1. Format Display Regardless of format display, file attachments will only display the
          number of files that are enabled by your system administrator.
         2. Page view. The page view displays the total number of email attachments and
          always is displayed under the file attachments.
       Delete and download commands
       These are two of the most important commands when working with images.
         1. Delete. This command works with the Select commands. You must first select a file
          before you can delete it. A confirmation request appears, requiring you to confirm
          you want to delete the file(s) you’ve selected.
         2. Download. This command also works with the Select commands and your browser
          download settings, allowing you to download an individual file or multiple files at
          once.
            Preview image attachments
               1. More options. This command provides a list of actions for that file type.
               2. Non-preview image. Only non-preview image types allow you to either export
                 selected records, download, or delete the attached file.
               3. Preview image types. Allow you to export selected record, preview, download, or
                 delete the attached file. When you select the preview option, a pop-up window
                 appears, displaying the image with the image name listed below.
            Supported email file attachments
            The following is a list of file image types that are supported:
                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
             image type     supports preview                     supported inline (in editor)
             BMP.bmp        Yes                                  Yes
             GIF.gif        Yes                                  Yes
             ICO.ico        Yes                                  Yes
             JPG.jpg        Yes                                  Yes
             PNG.png        Yes                                  Yes
             SVG.svg        Yes                                  Yes
             PDF.pdf        Yes (preview not supported on IE)    No
            View and insert images in email
            The use of visual aids helps users convey a tremendous amount of information with just
            a glance. Having the ability to view and insert inline images in email using the drag-and-
            drop or copy-and-paste functionality is a powerful tool for users. Additionally, you can
            browse to a file or reference an online URL using the image toolbar button.
      You can drag-and-drop or copy-and-paste images into the email.
        1. Email images You can adjust the image size.
        2. Save. When you complete your edits, select Save or Save & Close.
          ７ Note
          There's a 1 MB file size limitation when adding an inline image to an email for
          email templates. (For new or replied emails, there isn't a limit to the email size
          (it becomes part of the total email size).
      Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
             Use the rich text editor toolbar in email
             Article • 10/03/2022
             The rich text editor toolbar provides features and functionality that allows you to work
             with rich text formats in emails to better communicate with your customers.
             Formatting options
             The following table describes the different formatting features and functionality options
             available in the rich text editor that you can use in the email form.
               ７ Note
               You can access your browser's context menu by pressing Ctrl + right-click. This is
               useful if you need to use your browser's built-in spell checker. Otherwise, you can
               use the right-click to provide contextual formatting for any element you might be
               using. 
                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
              Icon    Name            Shortcut key   Description
                      Format Painter  Ctrl+Shift+C,  Apply the look of a particular section to another
                                      Ctrl+Shift+V   section.
                      Font            Ctrl+Shift+F   Select your desired font. The default font is Segoe UI.
                                                     Note: When you select any formatted content, the
                                                     font name for that content displays. If your selection
                                                     contains multiple fonts, the topmost font name of
                                                     your selection is displayed.
                      Font size       Ctrl+Shift+P   Change the size of your text. The default size is 9.
                                                     Note: When you select any formatted content, the
                                                     font size for that content displays. If your selection
                                                     contains multiple font sizes, the topmost font name of
                                                     your selection is displayed.
                      Bold            Ctrl+B         Make your text bold.
                      Italic          Ctrl+I         Italicize your text.
              Icon   Name            Shortcut key   Description
                     Underline       Ctrl+U         Underline your text.
                     Text Highlight                 Make your text stand out by highlighting it in a bright
                     Color                          color.
                     Font Color                     Change the color of your text.
                     Bullets                        Create a bulleted list.
                     Numbering                      Create a numbered list.
                     Decrease                       Move your paragraph closer to the margin.
                     Indent
                     Increase Indent                Move your paragraph farther away from the margin.
                     Block Quote                    Apply a block-level quotation format in your content.
                     Align Left      Ctrl+L         Align your content with the left margin. (Commonly
                                                    used for body text to make it easier to read.)
                     Align Center    Ctrl+E         Center your content on the page. (Commonly used
                                                    for a formal appearance.)
                     Align Right     Ctrl+R         Center your content on the page. (Commonly used
                                                    for a formal appearance.)
                     Link                           Create a link in your document for quick access to
                                                    web pages and files.
                                                    Pasted or typed URL text is converted into a link. For
                                                    example, "http://myexample.com" will become
                                                    "http://myexample.com  ".
                                                    In the Link dialog box, choose the type of link you'd
                                                    like to insert.
                                                    The Link Info tab allows you to choose the link type
                                                    as well as set the link protocol and URL.
                                                    The Target tab is only available for the URL link type.
                                                    It specifies the location where the link will open after
                                                    you select it.
                     Unlink                         Delete a link in your email or document.
                                                    When you place the cursor on a link, the Unlink
              Icon   Name            Shortcut key   Description
                                                    button on the toolbar becomes active. Select the
                                                    button to remove the link and make it plain text.
                     Superscript                    Type very small letters just above the line of text.
                     Subscript                      Type very small letters just below the line of text.
                     Strikethrough                  Cross out text by drawing a line through it.
                     Insert Image                   You can insert an image by directly copying and
                                                    pasting it inline in the editor, dragging and dropping
                                                    it from your desktop or local folder directly into the
                                                    editor, or by typing a URL. The following formats are
                                                    supported: .PNG, .JPG., or .GIF.
                                                    To insert an image inline in your article:
                                                    1. Drag and drop the image or copy and paste it
                                                    directly into the article.
                                                    2. Drag any corner of the image to resize it.
                                                    To insert an image using a URL or navigating to the
                                                    local image:
                                                    1. Choose Insert Image.
                                                    2. In the Image property dialog, choose from the
                                                    following options:
                                                          Select Browse to navigate to the image on your
                                                          computer.
                                                          Or specify the web address of the image, and
                                                          properties to define how the image will appear
                                                          in the email or article.
                                                          Note:
                                                             If the image is located on the external
                                                             server, use the full absolute path.
                                                             If the image is located on a local server, you
                                                             can use a relative path.
                                                             If you want the image to be linked to a
                                                             target, add a URL for the image.
                                                             You can also specify if you want the targeted
                                                             page to open in a new window, topmost
                                                             window, same window, or parent window.
                     Left to Right                  Change the text to left-to-right for content such as a
                                                    paragraph, header, table, or list. Commonly used for
                                                    bi-directional language content. This is the default
                                                    setting.
              Icon   Name            Shortcut key   Description
                     Right to Left                  Change the text to right-to-left for content such as a
                                                    paragraph, header, table, or list. Commonly used for
                                                    bi-directional language content. The default setting is
                                                    left-to-right.
                     Undo Typing                    Undo changes you made to the content.
                     Redo Typing                    Redo changes you made to the content.
                     Clear All                      Remove all formatting from a selection of text, leaving
                     Formatting                     only the normal, unformatted text.
                     Add a Table                    Add a table to your content.
                                                    After adding a table, you can do any of the following:
                                                          Resize table columns by clicking and dragging
                                                          your mouse to resize to the columns to the
                                                          desired width.
                                                          Select one or several cells within a table and
                                                          apply specific formatting, add links to the
                                                          selection, or cut, copy, or paste entire rows or
                                                          columns.
                                                          Right-click to access the properties. This
                                                          supports features such as cell type, width and
                                                          height, word wrapping, alignment, merging and
                                                          splitting cells horizontally and vertically,
                                                          inserting or deleting rows and columns, row
                                                          and column span, and cell and border color.
                     User                           Select the default Font Name and Font Size. After
                     personalization                they're added, the Font and Font Size reflect these
                                                    values as default font and font size.
                     Expand Toolbar                 Displays when the toolbar is collapsed and not all
                                                    options appear. Click to expand the toolbar and make
                                                    all options visible.
               ７ Note
               You can access your browser's context menu by pressing Ctrl + right-click. This is
               useful if you need to use your browser's built-in spell checker. Otherwise, you can
                use the right-click to provide contextual formatting for any element you might be
                using.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Send email to multiple recipients
       Article • 02/15/2022
       You can send an email to multiple recipients by using email templates. This is known as
       direct or bulk emailing. By default, the direct email feature is disabled. An administrator
       must enable the direct email feature by selecting Yes for Enable Send Direct Email
       Action in Unified Interface for Send Email enabled tables on the Email tab in the
       System Settings dialog box. More information: System Settings Email tab
       To send email to multiple recipients
        1. In the site map for the model-driven app, select a table to which you want to send
         email. For example, Contacts.
        2. In the list of rows, select the contacts you want to send an email to.
        3. On the command bar, select Send Direct Email.
        4. In the Send Email pane, select an email template from the Template list.
           ７ Note
             If you have multiple rows that span multiple pages, you can select one of
             following options from the To list:
               All rows on current page: Sends the email to all rows displayed on
               the current page.
               All rows on all pages: Sends the email to all the stored rows.
             If a few rows don't have an email address or they have an invalid email
             address, those rows will be skipped from sending the email.
         5. Select Send.
       Check the status of bulk email action
       You can check the status of bulk email action on the System Jobs page. You can see
       whether the bulk email job has failed or succeeded. If a job has failed, you can open the
       failed job to see its details.
       To check the bulk email status
         1. In your app, select the Settings icon, and then select Advanced Settings.
                    The Business Management page opens in a new browser tab.
                 2. On the navigation bar, select Settings, and then under System, select System Jobs.
                    A list of system jobs is displayed.
                 3. In the grid header, select Filter      .
                 4. In the System Job Type column header, select the down arrow, select Bulk Email,
                    and then select OK.
                    Bulk email jobs are displayed with their corresponding status.
                 5. Double-click the failed job to see its details.
              See also
              System Settings Email tab
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Resolve an unresolved email recipient
       Article • 02/15/2022
       An unresolved email recipient is one whose email address isn't associated with any table
       rows in Microsoft Dataverse. By default, you can't send an email to an unresolved email
       recipient. If you enter an unresolved email recipient address, the email address is
       deleted as soon as you move the focus out of the To, Cc, or Bcc column. An
       administrator must enable the unresolved email recipient feature by selecting Yes for
       Allow messages with unresolved email recipients to be sent on the Email tab in the
       System Settings dialog box. More information: System Settings Email tab
       After the feature is enabled, you can add an unresolved email recipient in the To, Cc, or
       Bcc column. The entered email address is shown in red. You can then select the email
       address and associate it with a table row in Dataverse without navigating away from the
       email form.
       If you receive an email that has email addresses that aren't associated with a table row,
       the email addresses are shown in red. You can then individually select the email
       addresses and associate them with a table row. You can then send emails to the newly
       added email addresses.
       To resolve an unresolved email recipient
        1. Open the email editor and select the unresolved email recipient.
        2. In the Lookup Rows pane, select New Row.
         ７ Note
         If rows are displayed in search results, you can resolve the email to one of the
         existing rows.
       3. Select the row type to create. For example, Contacts.
       4. In the Quick Create: Contact pane, enter the required details, and select Save and
        Close.
       5. The contact is created and selected in the Lookup Rows pane. Select Add.
       6. The unresolved email recipient is resolved and shown in the To column in the email
        editor.
      See also
      Allow unresolved email recipients
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
                Email FAQs and known issues
                Article • 02/15/2022
                Find answers to common questions regarding the email experience features and functionality, configurations, and
                other key concepts.
                Email content is lost after entering text in the body of
                the message
                Issue: Recent content added to the email may get lost if you enter text in the body of an email and immediately
                select Save, Save and Close, or Send.
                Resolution: To avoid this issue, wait a few seconds before you select Save, Save and Close, or Send after you enter
                text in the body of the email.
                The From column is read only or lookup isn't working
                Issue: The From column in an email form is read-only or you can't look up rows and filter results by User or
                Queue.
                Resolution: This happens when customization specifically have been applied on this column by your system
                administrator. To fix the issue, open a browser window and run the following two commands replacing the
                environment URL with the URL of your environment.
                      (replace with your environment
                      URL)/api/data/v9.1/RemoveActiveCustomizations(SolutionComponentName='AttributeLookupValue',ComponentId=
                      (25E9AF0C-2341-DB11-898A-0007E9E17EBD))
                      (replace with your environment
                      URL)/api/data/v9.1/RemoveActiveCustomizations(SolutionComponentName='AttributeLookupValue',ComponentId=
                      (26E9AF0C-2341-DB11-898A-0007E9E17EBD))
                To find the URL, in the address bar the first part of the URL that starts with https:// and ends with .com is your
                environment URL. For more information on how to find the environment URL, see Get the environment UR.
                I've enabled an email form but it doesn't display.
                If you've enabled an email form but it is doesn't display, you'll need to enable it in the App Designer by doing the
                following: 
                   1. Go to Settings > Advanced Settings.
                   2. Select Settings.
                   3. In Application settings, select *Apps.
                   4. Select       More Options on Customer Service Hub.
                   5. On the App Designer drop-down menu, select Open.
                   6. On the site map, select the edit feature.
                   7. Under the Email form selector, select the drop-down menu to display the Email forms you have enabled.
         If the form isn't displayed in the list, it hasn't been enabled.
        8. To enable a form, go to Main Forms and select the form.
        ７ Note
        You can't change the display order under Main Form. You must go back to the Form Order to change the
        display order.
        9. Add the email template and signature link to the site navigation by going to the site map and doing the
         following:
         a. Go to Settings > Advanced Settings.
         b. Select Settings.
         c. In Application settings, select *App.
         d. Select More Options on the Customer Service Hub tile.
         e. Select OPEN IN APP DESIGNER.
         f. Select the pencil icon to edit.
         g. When the site map opens, create a new group for templates by selecting New subarea.
         h. Select email templates or email signature.
         i. Add a title. (This is the name that will show instead of New subarea when saved.)
         j. Save and publish. A link is added to the site map.
               Feedback
               Was this page helpful?   Yes       No
               Provide product feedback
     Create email templates
     06/03/2025
       ） Important
          As of May 23, 2025, the following functionalities will no longer be available:
           The enhanced email template and legacy rich text editor.
           The drag and drop functionality of the enhanced email template editor.
          The modern rich text editor supports HTML formatting. Any existing templates
          created using the enhanced email template editor will now open in the modern rich
          text editor. If you any see any formatting issues, we recommend that you update or
          recreate the template using the modern rich text editor.
     Email templates are a fast and easy way to send consistent, professional, preformatted email
     messages to your customers.
     You can create email templates by using one of the following options:
        Start with a blank template: Create a template from scratch.
        Start with an existing template : Create a template by choosing an existing template.
     Prerequisites
     When you need to create an email template based on a table, make sure that you have the
     necessary permissions on the related tables, such as the Account table for the email template
     based on a case.
     Start with a blank template
     When you start with a blank template, nothing is provided for you. You must add everything
     you want customers to see.
       1. On the Email Templates command bar, select New, and then select Start with a blank
        template.
      2. Enter the following details:
         Template name: Give your email template a detailed name to help you identify it
         later.
         Permission level: Select from Organization or Individual. More information:
         Permission level for email templates
         Category: The default value is User. Categories determine which dynamic text fields
         are available for use in your template.
         Language: Display installed language packs. Language also helps to categorize your
         templates.
         Create: Opens one of two editors where you can build your template.
      3. Select Create. The template editor is displayed.
    Permission level for email templates
    Selecting Organization permission level for email templates allows you to create templates
    that everyone in the organization can use. Individual permission level is for personal use.
       ７ Note
       For Individual permission templates, these templates do not show up on the list of email
       templates unless your are the owner of the templates or the owner has shared the
       template with you.
       For Organization permission templates, these templates show up for all users in the
       organization.
     Start with existing templates
     Start with an existing template to create an email template faster and with less effort. The
     template is pre-populated with data. All you need to do is customize it for your needs.
       1. On the Email Templates command bar, select New, and then select Start with existing
        templates.
       2. Enter the following details:
           Search: Search for the name of a template to start from. Search doesn't support
           regular expressions.
           Browse out-of-the-box templates, global and entity-specific, listed in alphabetical
           order. Global templates are shown as the type User. If you've created custom email
           templates, they're also listed.
           Details. Preview the templates so that you can pick the one that best meets your
           needs. You can modify it as needed later.
       3. The template editor page is displayed.
     Email template editor
     You can use the email template editor to to create a new email template or edit an existing
     template.
        Designer tab: Use this tab to draft and apply standard formatting to your email template.
        You can also add dynamic text, images, and attachments. You can add Copilot prompts to
       your email template for a consistent experience. Learn more in Add Copilot prompts to
       email template.
        ７ Note
        Across all the model-driven apps, the email template editor supports upto 1048576
        characters.
       HTML tab: Use this tab to view and edit the HTML code of your email template. You can
       add HTML code to customize your templates with elements such as layouts, images, and
       buttons.
       Template tab: Specify or change the template details and the email subject.
       Attachments tab: Add attachments to your template if needed.
    See also
    Personalize content with Insert dynamic text
    Understand the email experience
       Personalize emails with dynamic text
       Article • 03/05/2025
       Generic greetings like "Dear customer" make customers less likely to engage with your
       emails. Personalize your outreach instead with dynamic text in your email templates.
       Dynamic text replaces a placeholder entity with the value of the entity when you send
       the email. For example, your email template might contain "Dear {!User:First Name;}"
       but your customer sees "Dear Sal".
       Insert dynamic text
       You can insert dynamic text in existing email templates or templates that you create.
        ７ Note
        Dynamic text in a hyperlink or an anchor tag isn't supported.
         1. Select Email Template to edit an existing template or create a new email template.
         2. On the template editor, place your cursor where you want the personalized
          content to appear.
         3. Select Insert dynamic text.
                    4. Select the Record type and Field name.
                       The category that you specified when you created the email template determines
                       the record types you can choose. The record type you choose determines the fields
                       you can select.
                Insert custom fields
                You can insert fields from custom entities by typing them directly in your email
                template.
                Use the following syntax:
                                                                                                          ﾉ
                                                                                                               Expand table
                 Field Type                                 Syntax
                        Single line of text                  {!EntityLogicalName:FieldLogicalName;}
                        Currency
                        Multiple lines of text
                        Decimal number
                        Floating number
               Field Type                           Syntax
                     Lookup                          {!EntityLogicalName:FieldLogicalName/@name;}
                     Multi-select option set
                     Option set
               Date                                  {!EntityLogicalName:FieldLogicalName/@date;}
               Time                                  {!EntityLogicalName:FieldLogicalName/@time;}
              For example, let's say you want to insert a custom field, Customer ID, linked to the
              record type User. Type the following placeholder in your template:
              {{!User:CustomerId;}}.
              If you want to insert a custom field, ModifiedOn, linked to the record type User. Type the
              following placeholder in your template: {{!User:ModifiedOn/@date;}}.
              See also
              How to create an email template in model-driven apps
              Enable the enhanced email template editor page
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Insert an email template
     Article • 04/14/2025
     If you previously created an email template, you can easily use it as the basis for your email by
     inserting it into the email.
     You can access the email template you created from the command bar by selecting Insert
     Template.
     Insert an email template overview
     After you select Insert Template, a window appears displaying a list of existing Email templates
     that are available to use.
      ７ Note
      There is an intermediary window that might appear if:
         You don't have either a Recipient or Regarding field for your email.
         You have both a Recipient and Regarding field. You must select one.
     This window doesn't appear if your administrator has set Skip Select Record dialog in
     Advanced Settings to Yes. The selection of one of these fields determines which template
     types are shown to a user in the template selection window:
        Recipient (TO): user (global) and contact templates are displayed.
        Regarding: user (global) and templates for the regarding entity are shown.
    Enhanced email template selection dialog
    The application displays the enhanced email template selection window only if your admin has
    configured the enhanced insert template dialog option. You can perform the following actions
    in the enhanced email template selection window:
       Switch between email template views.
       Switch among list, tile, and grid views.
       Search for templates based on their title, subject, description, or content of the template.
       By default, you can filter templates based on standard and custom attributes, and
       language, if your Administrator has enabled Language in the Template Gallery Filter
       Form. See: Add the language filter in the email template selection view
       Additionally, if your administrator has set Enable Email Template views in Advanced
       Settings to Yes, you can filter templates based on the email template view filters.
       Zoom in to view templates on a full screen. The application provides an option to
       navigate between templates.
    Legend
      1. Search. Use search to find a template. You can search for templates based on name,
       subject, description, or content. Search doesn't support regular expressions.
      2. All templates. Choose and browse from the templates displayed based on TO or
       Regarding, the filters applied, or a combination of both. You can change the view to
       display the templates in a grid, list, or tile view. Hover over the template tile to see the
       zoom option. Select the tile to open the template on a full screen.
      3. Preview. When you select an email template, a preview of the template is displayed here.
       The preview shows you the content so you can pick the template that best meets your
       needs. After inserting an email template, you can modify the content as needed in the
       email editor.
      4. Filter. You can filter templates based on standard or custom attributes.
      5. View. Use the view to switch between email template views. Copilot can recommend the
       relevant email template for your email. The Copilot recommended templates view
       displays five relevant email templates with prompts that Copilot recommends.
      6. Use the dropdown list to switch between grid, tile, or list views. Based on your admin's
       settings, the application displays a specific view. More information: Customize the email.
      7. Record. Specify the Field Name and Record. The template types shown to a user is based
       on what you've selected for these fields.
         Recipient (TO): user (global) and contact templates are displayed.
         Regarding: User (global) and templates for the regarding entity are shown. By
         default, Field Name is set to Regarding.
     ７ Note
        Bookable Resource Booking isn't supported.
        You can see the Record tab and switch between email template views only if your
        administrator has enabled the Enable Email Template views and Skip Select Record
        dialog. More information: Customize the enhanced email template selection view
        The enhanced email template selection view might vary based on the customizations
        your administrator has configured on the Template Gallery Filter Form, Email
        Template Sorted View, and Template Gallery Properties Form.
        If you try to insert an email template on a device with a smaller screen size, you'll
        only see an option to search and select a template only.
    Customize your email template selector filters
    With the enhanced email template selector dialog, you can switch between multiple email
    template views. The filters set for the email template views are available on the template
    selector, and lets you to view only the relevant email templates. You can modify the filters set
    for the view, but you can't save the modified filter conditions.
    For example, you have a custom view, Agent email template view, with filters set to display only
    the templates that have "case" in the title.
    When you access the enhanced email template selector and choose Agent email template
    view, the application displays only the templates with "case" in the title.
     ７ Note
     The email templates that are displayed are filtered based on the specified email template
     view filters and record.
    Email template selection dialog
    You can perform the following actions on the email template selection window:
       Select a language.
       Search for templates by title.
       Modify the content for a selected template.
    Legend
      1. Language. Templates are loaded according to the selected language.
      2. Search. Use search to find a template. Search doesn't support regular expressions and
       only works when using the name of that specific template.
      3. All templates. All existing templates that have been created are displayed in this window,
       which you can browse and choose from.
      4. Preview. When you select an email template, a preview of the template is displayed here.
       The preview shows you the content so you can pick the template that best meets your
       needs. After inserting an email template, you can modify the content as needed.
      5. Apply template to insert the content to your email.
     ７ Note
     If you try to insert an email template on a device with a smaller screen size, you'll only see
     an option to search and select a template.
    See also
    Set up enhanced email
    Understand the email experience
    Configure the enhanced insert email template
       Convert an email to a template
       Article • 02/17/2025
       When you've composed an email that you'd like to reuse with other customers, you can
       convert it to an email template and save it for future use.
       Convert an email into a template
       To save an email you've composed and formatted an email message as a template,
       select the downward-facing caret (v) next to Insert Template, and then select Convert to
       an email template from the drop-down list.
       Convert an email to a template overview
       The following window will display with a list you can customize.
       Legend
         1. Template name. Assign your email template a detailed name you want to save for
          future use.
         2. Permission level. Select from Organization or Individual. More information:
          Permission level for email templates
         3. Category. The default for this field is set to User.
         4. Language. You can display your installed language packs in this field. Language
          also helps to categorize your templates.
         5. Convert. Once an email is formatted, you can convert it to an email template.
       View an email template
       To view a complete list of all the email templates you've created:
         1. Go to the Templates section on the left-hand pane.
         2. Select Email templates A list of All Email Templates is displayed, which you can
          edit and update.
       Insert dynamic text in an email template form
              Legend
                 1. Add data fields. When you add data fields, the template adds Record type and
                    Field name fields below. You can add as many data fields you want.
                 2. Record type. You can then customize the record types. Default is set to account.
                 3. Field name. You can customize the field names. Default is set to account name.
                 4. More Commands. The More commands                  icon allows you to edit the order of
                    the record types using the Move Up or Move down functionality to align records
                    in a customized order.
                 5. Default text. Allows you to select the style of text for the subject and body of your
                    email template. If no text is selected, it will display using the default text.
                 6. Insert. When done this command inserts and saves your form.
                      ７ Note
                      If you click in an area on the form that does not support dynamic text, it
                      displays Unable to insert.
              For more information on creating email templates and configurations, see Create
              templates for email.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
        Create a signature for emails
        Article • 04/10/2023
        Email signatures are an important and valuable tool for users. Email signatures are like
        electronic business cards you include when you send an email, and can promote
        professional branding for your company.
        Add text to an email signature
        Adding an email signature is easy and can be done at any point while you are
        composing an email. You can either add an email signature with static or dynamic text.
        Dynamic placeholders are used to define dynamic text. The placeholders are replaced
        with the corresponding values of the email's sender, specified in the From field.
        Add an email signature
            On the command bar, select Insert Signature.
            From the drop-down list, select an existing signature or select New Email
            Signature.
        Based on the email's sender specified in the From field, one of the following actions
        occur:
            If the sender is a user, the dynamic placeholders defined in the email signature
            template are replaced with the values corresponding to the user.
            If the sender is set to a queue and the queue's owner is a user, the dynamic
            placeholders defined in the email signature template are replaced with the values
            corresponding to the queue's owner.
            If the sender is set to a queue and the queue's owner is a team, the dynamic
            placeholders are replaced with the values corresponding to the team's
          administrator.
       Create an email signature
       You can quickly create an email signature at any point while you are composing an
       email.
       Create a new email signature
       You can add a new email signature by:
         1. Details in this section, enter the name of the email signature.
         2. Signature editor. This allows you to create your email signature and Save when
          finished.
           ７ Note
              You can include inline images, such as a business logo, in email
              signatures, as long as they are under 1 MB in size. However, the inline
              image might not render properly if you open the email in the Outlook
              Desktop app.
              You can add only those fields as dynamic placeholders that are linked to
              the Record type user.
              Signatures can also be created and used for queues.
       Manage email signature lists
       You can view and manage email signatures you have created to make edits, change
       default, and who can view your signatures.
       Legend
         1. Under Templates select Email signatures.
         2. My Email Signatures list displays, showing all your email signatures you can edit
          and update.
         3. You can select a default signature for email. Only one signature per user can be set
          as Is Default.
         4. Email signatures can only be Viewable By the individual user.
       Change the default email signature setting
       While you can create multiple email signatures depending on your needs, only one can
       be set as your default email.
       To change your default email signature setting:
                 1. Select the email signature you want to set as default. This will change the
                    command bar to display Edit.
                 2. Select Edit. A new page opens, where you can update the email default setting.
                    While you are on this page, you can also delete one or multiple email signatures
                    just by selecting them.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
            Configure the enhanced insert email
            template selection dialog
            Article • 04/10/2023
            Turn on the enhanced email template selection experience for apps across your
            organization. If you need to, you can turn off the enhanced email template selection
            dialog for a specific app. And then, the users of the app see the default email template
            editor page.
            Enable the enhanced email selection dialog
               1. In Power Apps  , select the environment the environment that contains your
                 solution.
               2. Select Solutions, and then select the solution in which you want to turn on the
                 enhanced template editing experience.
                    ７ Note
                    Don't select the default solution to configure the template.
               3. Select Add Existing > More > Setting.
         4. On the Add existing Setting Definition pane, select the Enable the New Insert
          Template Dialog option and then select Next.
         5. Select Add on the Selected Setting Definition. The Enable the New Insert
          Template Dialog option is added to your solution. Select Edit.
         6. Set the Setting environment value option to Yes on the Edit Enable the New
          Insert Template Dialog pane.
         7. Select Publish All Customizations.
       Disable the enhanced email selection dialog for
       an app
       For an app to display the default email template selection dialog, you must disable the
       enhanced email template selection option. To disable the option for a specific app, you
       must add the app to the Solution in which you've added the email template selection
       option. Perform the following steps:
         1. Go to Power Apps instance.
         2. Select Solutions.
         3. On the Solutions page, select the Solution in which you've added the email
          template selection option.
         4. Go to Add Existing > App > Model-driven app> Add existing model-driven apps
          pane. Select the app for which you want to disable the enhanced insert email
          template selection dialog. The app is added to the solution.
         5. Select the Enable the New Insert Template Dialog option in the solution.
         6. On the Edit Enable the New Insert Template Dialog, in the Setting app value
          section, the selected app is displayed.
                 7. Select New app value for the app, and select No for the specified app.
                 8. Select Save and Publish All Customizations.
              See also
              How to create an email template in model-driven apps
              Customize an email template using the template editor
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
     Use sensitivity labels in emails
     Sensitivity labels help classify and protect business data. When you send or receive emails in apps
     such as Dynamics 365 Customer Service or Dynamics 365 Contact Center, these labels help
     enforce your organization's security and compliance policies. They protect sensitive information,
     help prevent accidental sharing, and ensure that attachments and replies retain the appropriate
     level of protection.
     How sensitivity labels work in your emails
     You can apply a sensitivity label to an email in the following ways:
        From the Inbox in Copilot Service workspace, select an email. In the preview pane, select
        the Sensitivity label dropdown in the Command bar to choose a label.
        From the email editor, when composing a new email or replying to an existing one. To
        choose a label, select the Sensitivity label dropdown in the command bar.
     For an incoming email, the sensitivity label applied by the sender is displayed in the email header.
     When you compose or respond to emails, the following actions apply:
        If you apply labels such as Do Not Forward or Do Not Reply to an email, the corresponding
        actions are automatically restricted for email recipients within the organization.
        When you reply to or forward an email that has a sensitivity label, the system automatically
        applies the same label to your email. You can’t change the current label to a less restrictive
        label. For example, if the original email is labeled Confidential, you can’t change it to
        General.
        Your organization can have a default sensitivity label configured. The default label is
        automatically applied when you start composing a new email in the email editor.
        Based on your organization's configurations, you can't send or save an email until you apply
        the required sensitivity label.
        When you add an attachment to an email, the attachment retains its existing sensitivity
        label. If there's a conflict between the attachment and email labels, the email displays a
        message indicating which label takes precedence. Displaying this message helps ensure that
        the entire message is classified consistently.
     Work with encrypted emails
      Some sensitivity labels apply encryption to emails, which means only authorized recipients can
      read them.
      When a customer sends an encrypted email, users can see that the email exists in the case
      timeline. The application doesn't display the encrypted message content.
      To view the message, users are redirected to Outlook on the web, where the email can be
      decrypted and opened securely.
        ７ Note
        Dataverse doesn't decrypt or store encrypted email content.
      Encrypted emails:
          Appear in the timeline
          Must be viewed through Outlook on the web
      The following features don't support encrypted emails:
          Case summaries
          Case enrichment
          Intent detection
          Other AI-driven workflows
        ７ Note
        Copilot features that rely on email content for AI-generated insights aren't available for
        encrypted email content unless the content is decrypted outside the application.
      Related information
      Configure sensitivity label support for emails
       Last updated on 07/29/2026
     Explore data on a grid page
     In model-driven apps, the default control that's used to show data in tabular form is the read-
     only grid. When a subarea contains a table, the subarea's default layout in the app sitemap is
     called the grid page.
     Legend:
       1. Command bar: The commands available for the page
       2. View selector: Select to change views
       3. Edit columns: Select to add, remove, or reorder columns
       4. Edit filters: Select to filter the view with advanced queries
       5. Filter by keyword or Quick find: Show only the rows in the current view that match your
        search criteria
       6. Row counter: Shows total number of rows
     Command bar
     The command bar provides quick access to various commands and actions within an application.
     View selector
        The view selector lists the views that are available for the table. By default, the list is divided into
        two groups:
              My Views: Personal views that you created
              System Views: Views that your administrator created and shared with you
        Personal views are listed before system views by default. Both lists are sorted alphabetically. You
        can change the order the views are listed in.
           ７ Note
           If your administrator has turned on the modern advanced find experience, the list of views
           isn't divided. To easily tell which kind of view you're looking at, personal views have a user
           icon   . You can also hover over the information icon     to see the view type.
        To quickly find a view in a long list, use the search box at the top of the view selector.
     Every table in your app has a default view that's set by your administrator. The Default label in
     the view selector identifies which view is the default for the table.
     Column editor
     Use the column editor to add, remove, or reorder columns.
     Filter editor
     Use the filter editor to see or modify the query that selected the records in the view.
     Grid search
     Grid search enables you to filter the current view based on a keyword. When you choose the
     search box, an information tooltip appears to indicate the list of columns on which a begins-with
     match is applied.
     The search box can offer two different experiences, depending on how your administrator has
     configured search.
      ７ Note
      If your app is configured to be offline by default, the search box will utilize Quick find
      regardless of the grid search configuration in place.
     Filter by keyword
     Filter by keyword is the default experience. When you enter text in the Filter by keyword box,
     the system filters the current view. It displays the results in the same columns that are used in the
     current view.
     Quick find
     If your administrator has turned on quick find, then the search box shows Quick find. When you
     enter text in the Quick find box, the system filters the table's quick find view. It displays the
     results in the columns of the quick find view rather than the current view.
      ７ Note
      Grid search keywords that begin with an asterisk (*) will display a warning informing you that
      the search might be slower. If your administrator has turned on the Prevent slow keyword
      filter for quick find terms on view pages setting, then you cannot perform a search on
      keywords that begin with an asterisk (*).
     Find and visualize data
     Find data with AI and visualize data with AI using the natural language text input box.
     Row counter
     Row counter displays the total number of rows and indicates infinite scrolling on the page. This is
     the default view available.
     Record counter
     Record counter shows the position of the current page of records within the total number of
     records in the view. This is typically shown as a record counter, such as "Records 21-40 of 100". To
     view the record counter, your administrator must enable the settings.
     Page navigation
     Page navigation allows you to move forward or backward by page in the set of records shown in
     the view and see the position of each page within the total dataset. To view the page navigation,
     your administrator must enable the settings.
     Jump bar
     The jump bar is a quick way to filter out records based on letters of the alphabet. To see only
     records that start with the letter S, for instance, select S in the jump bar.
     The jump bar acts on the first sorted column. If the sort order hasn't changed, the jump bar uses
     the primary column. To view the jump bar, your administrator must enable the settings.
     Column header actions
     Dropdown column headers provide various options to let you modify the data shown in the grid.
     Sorting
     You can modify the order of records in the grid using the sorting actions in the dropdown
     column headers. By default, selecting to sort by a column replaces any existing sorting criteria on
     the grid.
      ７ Note
     Multi-column sorting can be accomplished by holding the Shift key when you select a sort
     on a different column. This adds the sort condition to the existing sorting criteria on the grid,
     instead of replacing the sorting criteria.
    Filtering
    To focus on records that meet particular criteria, you can filter a view by one or more columns.
    The type of data in the column determines the available filter options.
     ） Important
     In Unified Interface, grids don't pre-populate column filters based on the current view
     definition.
     ７ Note
     Filtering isn't supported on virtual entities. The grid filter's look-up list is limited to 100
     results.
    Filter by multiple values
    Use multiselect filtering for more column types, including text-based columns such as Name and
    Phone Number. Lookup, multiselect choice, and party-list lookup columns already support
    selecting multiple values. In supported column filter dropdowns, select more than one value at a
    time. The grid returns all records that match any of the values you select, so you can narrow a
    view to several categories at once without applying multiple separate filters.
     Filtering on a lookup column
     When you filter data on a lookup column, you can select from a list of values, rather than typing.
     For example, to filter a view by Primary Contact, you can select a name from the list that appears
     when you select the filter text box.
     If you start typing, the filter suggests matching results to help you complete the search. The
     results include all rows that aren't otherwise filtered out.
     Filtering on a date column
     When you filter on a date column, you can select from many different ways to specify a date or a
     time frame. For example, you can search On or after an exact date, Next fiscal year, or Last week.
     Filtering activities
     Use the activity type filter to show only the activities you're interested in, such as appointments
     or email.
     Grouping
     When configured, the dropdown column headers surface a Group by option. This allows you to
     group the data in the grid by values in the selected group.
        Grouping is available for most kinds of columns. This notably doesn't include lookup
        columns.
        When grouping on date fields, you need to choose a timeframe to on which to group. This
        includes day, week, month, quarter, and year.
        You can only group by one column at a time; selecting Group by on a different column
        replaces any existing grouping criteria.
        You can remove the grouping by selecting Ungroup from the same dropdown column
        header to remove the grouping.
      ７ Note
      Grouping criteria isn't saved to a view. Grouping is not supported on nested grids or when
      paging on the grid is allowed.
     Aggregation
     When configured, the dropdown column headers surface a Totals option in numeric columns.
     This allows you to surface an aggregate calculation in the grid footer for the data in this column.
     You can choose between showing a sum, the maximum value, the minimum value, or the average
     value. If the data in the grid has been grouped, the aggregate is calculated and displayed for
     each group.
      ７ Note
      Aggregations aren't saved to a view.
     Show as
     While the default read-only grid is initially used to show data, if multiple dataset controls are
     configured for the table view, you can switch between these controls using the Show as menu in
     the command bar, which is typically found under the More commands action. Once you've
     switched to a different display of the data, that control is remembered for future sessions on that
     device.
      Last updated on 08/10/2026
       Create and manage personal views on a
       grid page
       Article • 03/08/2024
       In model-driven apps, views define the data that's displayed in tabular form on a grid
       page. System views are views that are created by your administrator and shared with
       you. You typically can't modify them. However, you can create and manage personal
       views. Personal views are available to you only unless you share them.
       A view consists of the following elements:
          The columns to display
          Default sorting options
          Filters to show rows that match specific criteria, if needed
        ） Important
        To ensure proper functionality of all views, it's recommended to create all views
        with the View designer in the maker portal or the Edit filters panel in the view page.
        Custom views imported from solutions can include invalid fetchXML and might not
        be supported.
       For more information, see Understand model-driven app views.
       Select columns in the column editor
         1. Select Edit columns to remove, reorder, or add columns to get a clearer view of
          your data.
         2. Select Apply to see your changes on the grid page.
       The following actions are available in the column editor:
        To remove a column, hover over the column name, select …, and then select
        Remove.
        To change the order of the columns, select …, and then select Move up or Move
        down. Or, drag the column to the desired position in the list.
        To add columns to the view, select Add columns, and then do one or more of the
        following:
          Select a column from the default set of system columns in the table.
          Select Default, then select All or Custom, and then select from the set of
          columns in the table.
          Type a column name in the Search box to find a specific column, and then select
          it.
          To add columns from other tables, select the Related tab. Expand the table that
          contains the column you want to add, and then select the column. When you're
          done adding columns, select Close.
      To undo changes to the view's columns at any time, select Reset to default.
      Select filter conditions in the filter editor
      Use the filter editor to view or change the query that underlies the data in the current
      view.
      Edit or delete a condition
        To change a condition, select the column, operator, or value and edit as needed.
        To remove a condition, select More commands (…) next to the row, and then select
        Delete.
      Add conditions
       1. To add one or more conditions, select Add.
       2. When you're finished editing the view filters, select Apply to see your changes on
        the grid page.
      The following options are available when you add conditions in the filter editor:
        To add a condition, select Add row, and then select a column, an operator, and a
        value.
        If you're adding a condition to a column with lookups, you can look up the record
        in the Value field. In the lookup drop-down menu, you can choose Advanced
        lookup to see more fields and search for records within a specific view.
        To add a group of conditions, select Add group. You can create multiple
        subconditions and group them using AND and OR operators to create an
        expression.
        To add a single condition to a group, select the condition checkbox, then select …,
        and then select Make group.
        To separate a group of conditions, select the group's checkbox, then select …, and
        then select Ungroup.
          To add a condition based on a column in a related table, select Add related entity,
          and then select a table. Contains data is the only conditional operator that can be
          used with a related table in a view filter. Then, select a column in the related table,
          an operator, and a value.
       To undo changes to the view filter at any time, select Reset to default.
         Tip
        If you have the security privilege Enable Download Fetch XML, found under
        Miscellaneous Privileges section of the Customization tab within the security role
        definition page, you can download the FetchXML expression for a view. Contact
        your administrator if you need this capability.
       Sort the data
       Select a column heading, and then select how the view should sort data in the column.
       You can sort on one column at a time.
       Sorting options depend on the type of data. Alphanumeric columns can be sorted in A
       to Z (ascending) or Z to A (descending) order. Date columns can be sorted in older to
       newer (ascending) or newer to older (descending) order. An arrow to the right of the
       column name indicates the view is sorted on that column. The direction the arrow is
       pointing indicates whether the column is sorted in ascending or descending order.
       Edit column width
       If your administrator has turned on modern advanced find, you can drag the vertical
       column separator bar to change the minimum width of a column. When you change the
       width of a column, as asterisk appears beside the view name to indicate that you edited
       the view and haven't saved it. See Save your edits to as a new view to learn more about
       different options to save a view.
         Tip
        Since the column width edits change the minimum width of the column, you might
        see column widths getting adjusted after the view is saved, to fill the available
        horizontal screen space.
       Save your view
       An asterisk beside the view name indicates you edited the view and haven't saved it. If
       you switch to another view or leave the page, the view will revert to its original
       definition. To keep your changes and add the new view to the list of views available to
       you, be sure to save it.
       Save your edits as a new view
       To keep the original view, save your edited version as a new view with a different name.
       If you made changes to a view you don't have Write permission to, whether it's a system
       view or a personal view, then you can only save it as a new view.
        1. On the command bar, select More commands (⁝) > Create view > Save as new
          view.
        2. Enter a new name for the view, and a description if you like, and then select Save.
       ７ Note
       If you want to keep the original view, be sure to give your edited view a different
       name. If you don't, your changes will overwrite the existing view without
       confirmation, even though you selected to save it as a new view.
      Change the definition of an existing view
      If you don't want to keep the original view, you can replace it with your edited version.
      You'll need Write permission to the view to overwrite the original definition with your
      changes.
      On the command bar, select More commands (⁝) > Create view > Save changes to
      current view.
      Save changes to views in modern advanced find
      If your administrator has turned on modern advanced find, you can create and manage
      views directly from the view selector.
       Change the default view
       The default view for a table is indicated by the Default label in the view selector. Your
       administrator sets a default view for each table in your app. However, you can set a
       different view as your personal default.
       In the following example, the administrator set the view My Active Accounts as the
       default for the Accounts table. To change your default view to Active Accounts:
        1. In the view selector, select Active Accounts to apply the view to the grid page.
        2. Open the view selector again and select Set current view as my default.
      To change your personal default view back to the view that was set by your
      administrator, select Reset default view in the view selector.
       ７ Note
        If you don't see Reset default view, it means the current default view for the table
        is the one set by the administrator.
       Change the default view in modern advanced find
       If your administrator has turned on modern advanced find, you can change and reset
       the default view directly from the view selector.
       Manage and share personal views
       If your administrator has turned on modern advanced find, you can share, hide, rename,
       and delete views.
        1. In the view selector, select Manage and share views.
       2. Select View commands (…) and then choose your option.
      Change the order of views in the view selector
      By default, the view selector lists views in two groups, personal views and system views,
      each ordered alphabetically. You can change the sort order within groups, or remove the
      grouping entirely and order the entire list alphabetically.
       1. In the view selector, select Manage and share views.
       2. Change the view selector sort order, and then select Apply.
             The following sorting options are available:
                   Personal before system, A to Z: This is the default. Both groups are ordered
                   alphabetically. Personal views appear above system views.
                   System before personal, A to Z: Both groups are ordered alphabetically. System
                   views appear above personal views.
                   A to Z: The grouping is removed. All views (system and personal) are presented in
                   alphabetical order.
                     ７ Note
                     If your administrator has turned on the modern advanced find experience,
                     the list of views isn't divided. To easily tell which kind of view you're looking
                     at, personal views have a user icon   . You can also hover over the information
                     icon    to see the view type.
             Hide views
             You can hide views in the view selector to personalize the list and reduce clutter. You
             should keep some things in mind:
                   When you hide a view, it's hidden from that table's views in all model-driven apps
                   on all devices.
                   If the view is shared with you and other team members, hiding it only hides the
                   view for you. It's not hidden for everyone else who has access to the view.
                   You can hide your personal views by default. You can hide system views only if the
                   administrator has allowed it.
        You can't hide a table's default view. If you want to hide the default view, set
        another view as the default first.
        You can't set a hidden view as the default view for a table.
      To hide a view:
       1. In the view selector, select Manage and share views.
       2. Hover over the view and select Hide. Or, select View commands (…) to the right of
        the view, and then select Hide.
       3. Select Apply.
      To restore a hidden view:
       1. In the view selector, select Manage and share views.
       2. Hover over the view and select Show. Or, select View commands (…) to the right
        of the view, and then select Show.
       3. Select Apply.
        Other view management tasks
           Set as default: Makes a view the default view for that table across all model-driven
           apps in the environment. This option doesn't appear on a hidden view or on a view
           that's already the default.
           Reset default: Changes the default view of a table back to what the administrator
           set, across all model-driven apps in the environment.
           Share: Shares the view with other members of your organization. This option
           appears only on personal views that you have Share permission to. For more
           information, see Share rows with a user or team.
           Edit info: Change the view name and description. This option appears only on
           personal views that you have Write permission to.
           Assign: Assigns ownership of the view to another user or team in your
           organization. This option appears only on personal views that you own.
           Delete: Deletes the view. If you delete a personal view, the view is deleted for
           everyone who has access to it. This option appears only on personal views you
           have Delete permission to.
           Deactivate/Activate: Deactivates or activates the view. If you deactivate or activate
           a personal view, the view becomes inactive or active for everyone who has access
           to it. This option appears only on personal views you have Write permission to.
                    Download Fetch XML: Download the FetchXML expression for the view. This
                    capability is enabled by an administrator with the security privilege Enable
                    Download Fetch XML, found under Miscellaneous Privileges section of the
                    Customization tab within the security role definition page.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
             FAQs and known issues about grids and
             views
             Article • 10/14/2022
             [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
             How many levels of related table columns can I
             add to a view using the column editor?
             You can add one level of related table columns using the column editor (Edit columns)
             on a grid page.
             How many levels of related table columns can I
             add to nested conditions in a view using the
             filter editor?
             You can add up to 10 levels of related table conditions using the filter editor (Edit filters)
             on a grid page.
             Known issues
                   If you change the default display format for number, currency, time, or date and
                   then filter data on a grid, the filter won't show your selected display format. The
                   filters are still displayed in the system default format. In some cases, filtering might
                   not work at all.
                   To fix the issue, set the display format for number, currency, time, and date back to
                   the default setting.
                      1. In the upper-right corner, select the gear icon    , and then select
                         Personalization Settings.
                      2. On the Formats tab, change the number, currency, time, and date value back
                         to the default setting.
                 We're working to correct this issue. Check here for updates.
                 The advanced filter option on the Queues table doesn't work and displays this
                 error message: We are unable to display the filter conditions for this view.
                 Public views that include Contains data or Does not contain data filters don't
                 appear in the list of saved views in legacy advanced find.
                 When you open the Edit filters panel on certain Activity tables, you will see a
                 condition filtering tables that are not valid for Unified Client. These conditions may
                 not be a part of the FetchXML of the view.
                 When you choose the Search for rows in a table using advanced filters option or
                 the Advanced find button     when working in a Dynamics 365 - Custom app with
                 a modern, advanced find experience enabled, you might see a loading spinner
                 appear indefinitely.
            See also
            Explore data in a view on a grid page
            Create and manage personal views on a grid page
            Advanced find
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     View and manage records in focused view
     09/15/2025
     Focused view allows you to view and manage account, contact, lead, opportunity, and other
     records and their associated activities on one page. This view makes it easier for you to stay
     focused on your tasks and reduces the need to navigate between multiple screens. It also
     allows you to better organize and prioritize your tasks, thus saving time and effort.
     Focused view is now available for all entities, including custom entities. However, your
     administrator must enable it for you to access it. More information: Enable focused view and
     set it as the default view.
      ７ Note
         Focused view is similar to the sales accelerator workspace view. Learn how to
         prioritize your sales pipeline through work lists.
         To view the latest updates and features of focused view, you must opt in for early
         access updates. Contact your administrator to enable early access updates for you.
         More information: Opt in to early access updates.
     Open the focused view
     Focused view is a centralized place to view all your open records that have activities that are
     due or pending, without having to navigate through multiple screens. By default, the lead
     entity grid opens in focused view. However, an administrator must enable and set other entities
     such as Account, Contact, Opportunity, and custom as default. More information: Enable
     focused view and set it as the default view.
     From the sitemap, select an entity such as lead, account, contact, or opportunity. The entity
     grid opens in the focused view.
     If you open an entity grid in the focused or list view and then close it within the same view, the
     application will remember to open the grid in the same view when you access it the next time.
     For example, if you open the Account entity grid in the focused view and then close it, the next
     time you open the Account entity grid, it will open in the focused view.
      ７ Note
      Focused view is now available for the Activities entity. However, you must opt in for early
      access features.
     Understand the focused view
     The following image is an example of focused view for the Lead entity:
     Focused view is categorized into the following sections.
      1. Switch view and command bar:
          Switching a View: This action allows you to change from the focused view to the list
          view. To do this, select the Read Only Grid option. The Read Only Grid option is
          only available if you have one control for the entity. If you have multiple controls,
          the Show As option is displayed instead. Select Show As and then choose an option
          to change to the required view.
          If you have opted in for early access updates, the Show As option is displayed as
          first option on the command bar.
          Command bar: This feature contains actions that help you perform bulk actions on
          multiple records. To use it, select More options. You can then choose the records
          that you want to work with and perform the required actions.
      2. Work list actions:
          Search, filter, and sort: These options are displayed at the top of the work list item
          view. You can search, filter, and sort the records that you want to view in the list to
          quickly identify only the records that you want to work with. You can also switch
          between focused view and list view. The attributes available in the view are
          displayed as filters and sort. These attributes include fields added through
         workspace customizations in the sales accelerator, and any new fields added to the
         work list card through card customization.
          ７ Note
           The following attributes types are not supported in filter and sort—
           Uniqueidentifier, related entities, and advanced filter that are created
           through workspace customizations.
           Filters aren't supported on mobile devices.
         For lead and opportunity entities, filters might display deprecated attribute options.
         To remove these filters, go to work list card customization and remove the
         Predictive scoring field.
         If you want to add more filters to the view, you can create an advanced filter.
          Advanced filter: Create an advanced filter option using the expression builder to
          refine the content displayed in the work list. You can have only one advanced
          filter defined for an entity in focused view. Select Edit filters to open the
          expression builder. In the expression builder, create the conditions as required
          and then select Apply. When the advanced filter is applied, the filter icon is filled
          with a blue color, and the advanced filter tag is displayed under the filter options.
         Select multiple records: To perform bulk actions on multiple records, select the
         Select multiple records option. You can choose the records that you want to work
         with and then perform the required actions. On the command bar, select More
         options to perform the bulk actions.
         Refresh and Settings: Select More options to perform list refresh and configure the
         work list card through settings.
          Refresh: Select Refresh to refresh the list of records.
          Customize work list card: Select Settings to customize the work list card. More
          information: Customize the work list card
      3. Records list: All records for the selected entity, including records with no associated
       activities, are displayed in a card format. You can perform and complete the activities,
       whether manual or automated, on these cards from the current date and from previous
       dates. Each card displays information such as the name of the record, the primary contact
       name, and the next best action.
         Next best actions: These include the top two activities with the latest due date. To
         complete the next best action, hover over the action and then select the action icon.
           No action items: When no action items are available for the record, the record
           displays information such as the name and contact details.
           Predictive scoring: When predictive scoring is enabled in your organization, the list
           also displays the score for that lead or opportunity at the upper-right corner of the
           card. Learn more about prioritizing leads through scores and prioritizing
           opportunities through scores.
       4. Record details: Select a record from the work list to view its details on the same page.
        When you select an entity record in the detail view page, the selected entity record is
        displayed inline on the same page, keeping the work list visible. For example, selecting a
        contact record within an opportunity record keeps the work list visible while displaying
        the contact details.
        However, when you perform certain actions such as creating a new record, composing an
        email, or opening an organization chart, the view opens in full page and hides the work
        list. Select the Back button to return to the actual work list record with the work list
        visible.
        When records are updated in the view, work list gets auto-refreshed if the entity on the
        work list matches the entity form of the record. After the refresh, if the current form
        record exists in the work list, the same record will remain selected else, the first record in
        the work list is selected.
     Customize the work list card
     You can customize the work list card to display the information that you want to see. When
     sales accelerator is enabled, the customizations you make here are also reflected in the sales
     accelerator work list items. More information: Customize the appearance of work items in sales
     accelerator
     The customization that you make to the work list card is specific to the entity type. For
     example, if you customize the work list card for the Lead entity, the customization is applied
     only to the Lead entity. The customization isn't applied to the Account, Contact, Opportunity,
     or other entities. These customizations also affect the sales accelerator workspace view.
       ７ Note
       You need to have read permissions for the Work list user setting entity to see the Settings
       icon and customize the work list card. Contact your administrator to provide the required
       permissions.
       1. In the focused view page, on the work list pane, select More options and then select
        Settings.
      2. In the Settings dialog box, select Work item appearance.
       The following are the considerations to keep in mind when customizing the work list card
       in focused view:
         The Switch to admin mode and Lock customization options are available only for
         administrators.
         If the customization is disabled, contact your administrator to turn off the
         customization lock.
         When admin mode is turned on, you can customize work items for all users within
         your organization. When turned off, you can customize work items only for yourself.
         If admin mode is turned off, contact your administrator to turn it on. More
         information: Lock or unlock customization for other user roles
           You can't customize the action items in the work list card. Also, in preview mode, the
           More options icon isn't visible to select action items that are configured in the sales
           accelerator workspace view.
       3. Under the Customize section, use the following options to customize:
           To change the icon that appears on a work item, select the pencil icon, and then
           choose one of the following options:
            Record image: A photo of the contact, if one is available.
            Record initials: The contact’s first and last initials.
            Record type: The icon associated with the record type.
            Activity type: The icon associated with the current activity on the record.
           To change the content of work items, select the fields or attributes to display:
            To change an existing attribute, select a different one in its place from the list.
            To add an attribute in the same row, hover over an existing attribute and select
            More options > Add a field. You can show up to three fields in a row.
            To add an icon in the same row, hover over an existing attribute and select More
            options > Add an icon. You can show up to three icons in a row.
            To add a row, select the add icon (+). You can show up to four rows of
            information in a work item.
            To delete a field or an icon, hover over it and select More options > Remove.
            ７ Note
            Currently, the Follow indicator option doesn't work in focused view.
           To remove all customizations and restore work items to their original appearance,
           select Reset to default.
        The Preview section displays a preview of the work list card based on the customizations
        that you make.
       4. Select Save.
     Auto-refresh records
     Records in the work list can be refreshed automatically when they are updated. However, an
     administrator must enable this feature and configure the time interval for the records to
     refresh. For more information on how to configure this feature, see Automatically refresh
     records.
     Increase the number of records displayed in
     focused view
     You can configure the number of records that are displayed per page in the focused view. By
     default, 50 records are displayed, but you can increase this number up to a maximum of 250.
     To do so, go to your personalization settings, and under the General tab configure the Set the
     number of rows shown per page in any list of rows option to increase the number of records
     displayed per page in focused view. More information: Set personal options
     Related information
     Enable focused view and set it as default
     Prioritize sales pipeline with work lists
     Work with opportunities in the Kanban view
     Customize work items
     Focused view FAQs
       Visualize data in a view with Power BI
       service
       Article • 03/10/2025
       Create reports in the Power BI service using the data that's in a view of your model-
       driven app. Power BI automatically generates the visuals for you, so you can start
       exploring the data with just a few clicks.
       If you're new to Power BI reports and need more information, see Reports in Power BI.
       If you're using Power BI Desktop, you can also create a report using data from Dataverse
       in Power BI Desktop.
         ７ Note
         Your administrator needs to turn on the Enable Power BI quick report visualization
         on a table feature setting, to use the capabilities that are covered in this topic. For
         more information, see Manage feature settings.
       Visualize in Power BI
         1. In your model-driven app, select a table and then on the command bar, select
          Visualize this view.
       2. Power BI-generates visuals of the data in your view, based on the view definition.
        That is, the filters acting on the view are automatically applied to the Power BI
        visualization. A subset of columns that are part of the view are used to auto-
        generate the Power BI visuals.
        The full set of view columns are available in the Power BI report to be used to
        change the data you see in the report.
       For more information on how you can interact with this visualization, see Visualize your
       data quickly from Power Apps and Dynamics 365 apps (preview).
       Licensing considerations
       Anyone can use the Visualize this view feature to explore the data in a view, but to use
       the full edit experience, publish reports, access reports that others have published, or
       delete reports, you need a Power BI Pro license. If you don't currently have a Pro license,
       you can buy a Power BI Pro license or start a free trial.
       Known issues and limitations
          The first time you visualize the data in a view, creating the dataset and report can
          take some time. We're working to improve this performance experience.
          This feature isn't supported for the Activities table due to a limitation in
          generating charts.
          This feature isn't supported for guest users in a tenant.
          If you're building your app for mobile, Power BI dashboards aren't a recommended
          choice to visualize data. Power BI dashboards are suited for larger screens, and the
          small screens and form factor of mobile devices can cause usability issues with
          scroll bars, filters, and more.
       Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Track your progress with dashboards
       and charts
       Article • 01/16/2025
       A dashboard is made up of a collection of easy-to-read charts and graphs that provide
       visual representation of filtered app data. The interactive charts and graphs on a
       dashboard display important data that gives you a 360-degree view of your business
       and helps you to understand key performance indicators (KPI).
       Dashboards are available for all row types. Charts are available on the Dashboard page,
       Grid page, Associated Home page, and Edit Form page.
       View dashboards
       There are two types of dashboards, System Dashboards and My Dashboards.
      Legend:
       1. My Dashboards: Personal dashboards that can only be seen by the user who
        creates them. The user can also share their personal dashboard with other users if
        the user has sharing privileges for their security role.
       2. System Dashboards: Created by your administrator. By default, these dashboards
        are visible to all users.
       ７ Note
         When a personal dashboard is shared, the owner of the personal dashboard
         needs to explicitly share any contained, personal charts or personal views
         because they have separate permissions.
         When a user sets a dashboard as default (via the Set as default action in the
         command bar), all page navigation to dashboards will take the user to the
           default dashboard, which may be a different dashboard than the named
           dashboard the user selected.
       Expand, refresh, and view rows
       Legend:
         1. Refresh: Refreshes the rows in the chart.
         2. View Records: See the chart and the underlying rows together. This opens the
          chart for the corresponding rows.
         3. Expand Chart: Shows the chart in full screen mode. The chart is still interactive in
          expanded mode.
         4. Tool tips: Hover your mouse over the chart to see a tooltip that provides quick
          information about that area of the chart.
       Create a dashboard with charts
       1. Go to Dashboards and then on the command bar select New > Dynamics 365
        Dashboard.
       2. Choose a layout and then select Create. This is how your dashboard displays the
        charts, graphics, and numbers.
       3. Type a name for the dashboard.
         4. Add what you want to each area of your dashboard. For example, let's add a chart.
         5. On the Add Component dialog box, select your options.
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
                      Options
           Row Type   Select a row.
           View       Select a view for the row.
           Chart      Select the type of chart that you want use.
       6. When you're done adding each component, select Add.
       7. Continue adding components to the dashboard. You can add up to six
        components.
       8. When you're done, on the command bar select Save.
       9. The dashboard that you created will appear in the drop-down menu under My
        Dashboards.
       Edit the properties of a chart
       When you add a chart on a dashboard, you can edit the chart properties and modify the
       chart view and display options. The following screenshot shows how a chart will display
       based on the chart properties that you selected.
      Legend:
       1. View title with View Selector turned off. You can't toggle between different views.
        You only see the title.
       2. Chart title with Display Chart Selection turned off. You can't toggle between
        different charts for the table. You only see the title.
       3. Only View Selector is turned on. You can toggle to a different view and the chart
        will render based on the underlying data for the selected view.
       4. Both View Selector and Display Chart Selection is turned on. You can toggle to a
        different view and chart for the table.
      To edit the chart properties, you need to edit the dashboard that the chart is in. If you're
      in the process of adding a new chart on a dashboard, then you're already in edit mode
      and can skip to step 2.
       1. Go to the dashboard that the chart is in and on the command bar, select Edit.
       2. Double-select the chart that you want to edit.
       3. On the Set Properties dialog box, select a View Selector option.
           Off: Don't show view selector, show the view title only.
           Show All Views: Show the view selector on chart and display all views in the
           view selector.
           Show Selected Views: Show the view selector on chart and display only the
           selected views in the view selector.
       4. Once View Selector is turned on, you can select different views to see how the
        chart renders with different data associated with the view.
       5. Select the Display Chart Selection check box to show the chart selector. When
        chart selector is enabled, you can toggle to a different chart for the table and see
        different visualizations of the data. If the box is unchecked, then you only see the
        chart title.
         6. When you're done, select OK.
       Drill-down in a chart
       You can drill down into a segment on a chart and filter the data for that segment. For
       example, you can drill down on one segment of a chart and change the chart type as
       you drill down.
       The chart drill-down feature is only available on the browser. It isn't available on the
       mobile app for phones or tablets.
       In the following example, let's further drill-down into the chart.
         1. Select a data point on the chart to open the Drill down by dialog box.
       2. Select the drop-down menu and choose how you want to group the data.
       3. Select the type of chart that you want to see the drill-down data in.
       4. The chart with the drilled-down data will show. The breadcrumbs at the top show
        the filter criteria of the drill-down data. You can select the breadcrumbs to go back
        home or to the previous screen.
      You can continue drilling further into the chart data. As you drill down deeper, the
      breadcrumbs will expand and you can go back to the previous screen or select the
      Home button to go back to the Home screen.
      Known issues
         In the chart designer, adding an order on certain calculated columns isn't
         supported and will cause an error. The calculated columns causing this are using
         other calculated columns, a related table column, or a local column on the table.
         Chart displays zero values when there's no data. With Unified Interface for model-
         driven apps you can still select a chart with zero value and drill down in to the
         data. More information: Chart displays zero values when there's no data
         By design, charts in rollup column can't be displayed because rollup columns
         contain an aggregate value computed over the rows related to a specified row.
         Chart drill-down functionality isn't available on charts in a subgrid or an associated
         grid.
         When you add a list control to a dashboard and switch the control to the Power
         Apps Read-Only grid control, you'll see a blank tile on the dashboard because the
         Power Apps Read-Only grid control isn't supported on dashboards. We
         recommend that you use Power Apps grid control.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       View charts on a page or in a row
       Article • 10/14/2022
       You can view charts on a page that has a list of rows. You can also open a row and view
       a chart in the row.
       Only an administrator can add charts to a row. For information, go to Add a chart to a
       form.
       View charts on a page
        1. On the left navigation pane, select a page.
        2. On the command bar, select Show Chart.
        3. Select the drop-down menu to choose a view.
              4. Select the chart view drop-down menu to choose between a system or personal
                view.
                    My Charts: Personal charts that can only be seen by the user who created the
                    chart. The user can also share their personal chart with other users if the user
                    has sharing privileges for their security role.
                    System Charts: Created by your administrator. By default, these charts are
                    visible to all users.
           Commands on a chart view
           Use the More Commands button    to access commands such as create a new chart,
           import, export, and more. The chart commands options are different for system charts
           and personal charts.
                                                                         ﾉ
                                                                            Expand table
             Commands on my (personal) charts           Commands on system charts
            Grid filter on charts
            Grid home page provides multiple filter options for a user to filter the grid data such as
            quick find, advanced find, grid column filter, and jump bar. For more information, go to
            How to use grid filters.
            When a chart is shown together with grid, the grid filter option that you select will filter
            both chart and grid.
            Legend:
                 1. Sort: Sorts rows. Use Filter by to filter both grid and chart data based on the filter
                    criteria.
                 2. Open advanced filtering panel: See which filters were applied to the current view.
                    For more information, go to Create and manage personal views on a grid page.
                 3. Search this view: Search for data in the view you're in.
                 4. Jump bar: The page jump bar uses the first sorted column. If no change has been
                    made to the sort order, the jump bar uses the primary column.
              Drill-down in the chart data
              You can drill down into a segment on a chart and filter the data for that segment. When
              a chart is shown together with grid, the drill-down option that you select will filter both
              chart and grid as shown in this illustration.
                ７ Note
                Chart drill-down functionality is not available on charts in a subgrid or an
                associated grid.
              For more information on how to use the drill-down feature, go to Drill-down in a chart.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Use interactive dashboards to filter data
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Use interactive dashboards to filter and view your app data. Charts on an interactive
       dashboard serve as a simple filtering source. You can select different data points on a
       chart to filter data based on the filter criteria.
       Interactive dashboards are system dashboards that only an admin can create. To learn
       more about how to create and configure interactive dashboards, go to Create and
       configure model-driven app interactive experience dashboards.
       Interactive dashboards come in two forms: multi-stream and single-stream. In addition,
       multi-stream dashboards can be home page or table-specific dashboards. The multi-
       stream dashboards display data in real time over multiple data streams.
       The single-stream dashboards display real-time data over one stream based on a table
       view. Visual filters are already applied. The tiles are positioned on the right side of the
       dashboards and are always shown.
             Use visual filters
             Use the visual filter option to drill down into the data on the charts. This displays
             information that interests you most.
                 1. To view an interactive dashboard, go to the list of dashboards and find the one
                   that has the interactive icon      next to the dashboard name.
                 2. On the command bar, select Show Visual Filter.
       3. Select a drill-down option.
       4. Select an area on one of the charts or graphs to apply a filter.
                 5. To clear the filter, select X next to the filter or to clear all filters, select Clear All.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
         Add or edit Power BI visualizations on your
         dashboard
         Create rich, interactive reports and real-time visualizations with Power BI dashboards and tiles
         that you add to your personal dashboards.
            ７ Note
            To add Power BI visualizations to personal dashboards in your model-driven app, you
            must:
                 Enable Power BI visualizations for your organization in Advanced Settings > System
                 > Administration > Reports > Embed Power BI visuals.
                 Have a Power BI account and have access to at least one Power BI dashboard.
                 Enable third-party cookies in your browser, otherwise authentication to Power BI will
                 fail.
         Create a personal Power BI dashboard
         Follow these steps to add a Power BI dashboard to your model-driven app. If you are
         connecting to the Power BI service, you need an account and to have selected your Microsoft
         Dataverse instance as a data source. For more information about registering and connecting
         data sources, see Microsoft Power BI   .
            1. Open your app and go to Dashboards.
            2. Select New and then select Power BI Dashboard.
            3. In the Power BI Dashboard Properties dialog select the workspace and then select the
              Power BI dashboard that you want to embed in your dashboard. Select Enable for Unified
              Client if you want to make the dashboard available for Dynamics 365 for tablets and
              Dynamics 365 for phones.
            4. Select Save to save your dashboard.
         Embed Power BI tiles on your personal dashboard
         Follow these steps to add one or more Power BI tiles to your personal dashboard. If you are
         connecting to the Power BI service, you need an account and to have selected your Dataverse
         instance as a data source. For more information about registering and connecting data sources,
         see Microsoft Power BI  .
            1. Open your app and go to Dashboards.
            2. Select an existing personal dashboard or select New to create one.
            3. On the dashboard, select an area where you want the tile to appear, and then select
              Power BI Tile on the toolbar.
            4. In the Power BI Tile dialog, select the workspace and then select the Power BI tile that
              you want to display on your dashboard. Select Enable for mobile if you want to make the
              tile available for Dynamics 365 for tablets and Dynamics 365 for phones.
              Select another area of the dashboard and repeat this step to add another Power BI tile, or
              other component, such as a chart or list, to your dashboard.
            5. Select Save to save your dashboard.
           ７ Note
           If a user clicks on the title of an embedded Power BI dashboard, a modal popup will be
           triggered, showing the dashboard along with Refresh and Open in Power BI actions.
         Share a personal dashboard that contains Power BI
         visualizations
         To share your personal dashboard that contains Power BI visualizations you must configure
         sharing in both Dataverse and Power BI, and the user or group must have the same credentials
         and appropriate level of access in both services. To share your personal dashboard in your app
         go to, Dashboards. In the list of dashboards, select the personal dashboard you want, and then
         select SHARE DASHBOARD. For more information about sharing a dashboard in Power BI, see
         Power BI: Share a dashboard with colleagues and others  .
         Privacy notice
         By enabling the embedding of Power BI tiles and dashboards, when a user embeds a Power BI
         tile or dashboard, that user’s Microsoft Entra ID authorization token for Microsoft Dataverse is
         used to authenticate with the Power BI service with an implicit grant, providing a seamless
         “single-sign on” experience for the end user.
         An administrator can disable embedding of Power BI tiles and dashboards at any time to stop
         use of the Dynamics 365 authorization token for authenticating with Power BI service. Any
         existing tiles or dashboards will stop rendering for the end user.
         The Azure component or service that is involved with embedding of Power BI tiles is detailed in
         the following section.
         Note: For more information about additional Azure service offerings, see the Microsoft Azure
         Trust Center  .
         Microsoft Entra ID
         This service provides the authentication token exchanged with Power BI service for API and UI
         authentication.
      Last updated on 03/13/2026
             Collaborate with others in model-driven
             apps
             Article • 10/10/2023
             Collaborate with colleagues and share links in model-driven Power Apps the same way
             do you as in Microsoft Office.
             Multiplayer apps
             When you're working on a record, you can also see other users who are working on the
             same record.
             You can also select a user's picture to see their online status, send them an email, or
             start a Teams chat.
             This feature uses the Azure Fluid Relay service, which must be available in your region.
             For more information, see Azure Fluid Relay service availability   . Because this feature
             uses the Azure Fluid Relay service, users must be able to access fluidrelay.azure.com.
             View a user's status and picture
              App users, such as the record owner, as well as the users appearing in grids and lookups
              are displayed with their picture and online status. This feature is now available on all
              model-driven apps and cannot be disabled.
                ７ Note
                This feature will be extended to user lookups and grid user columns.
              Share
              You can now easily share records with your colleagues using the new Share button.
              Select Copy link or Email link in order to send a record link to your colleagues.
                ７ Note
                If you have the share privilege on a record and you email a record link to a
                colleague, the colleague will automatically get read access to the record.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Use OneDrive for Business
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Create and manage private documents from within Microsoft Dataverse apps by using
       OneDrive for Business. More information: What is OneDrive for Business?
       Before you can use OneDrive for Business, it must be enabled by your system
       administrator. More information:
          Find your administrator or support person
          Enable OneDrive for Business
       The first time you view your documents
        1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
          contact row.
        2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
        3. Select Document Location > OneDrive.
        4. After OneDrive for Business is enabled, you'll see the following dialog box when
         you go to the Documents tab to view documents in Dataverse and upload a file to
         OneDrive, or when you attempt to create a new document or folder.
        5. Select Change folder location to pick a new location to store OneDrive
         documents, or select Continue to accept the default folder location.
       View existing OneDrive documents
        1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
         contact row.
        2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
               3. Select Document Location to filter the document list.
               4. Select a location as described in the following table.
                                                                               ﾉ
                                                                                  Expand table
             Document Location      Description
             OneDrive               Documents stored in OneDrive for Business
             Documents on Default   Documents stored in your default SharePoint site
             Site
             Shared with me         Documents that others shared with you that are associated with this
                                    row
             All Locations          All document locations associated with this row
         5. After you select a location, you'll see the documents saved in that location.
       Create a new document and save it to
       OneDrive
         1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
          contact row.
         2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
         3. Select Document Location, and change the location to OneDrive.
         4. Select New, and then choose a document type such as PowerPoint or Word.
         5. Enter a document name, and then select Save.
       Things to consider
              Be aware of the following regarding OneDrive for Business in Dataverse:
                    OneDrive storage folders are created in the user's current Dataverse language. If
                    the language changes, new folders will be created in the new language. Old folders
                    will remain in the previous language.
                    There might be a delay between when the documents are shared in OneDrive and
                    when they're available to other users.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Take notes by using OneNote
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Use OneNote to take or review notes, ideas, plans, and research from the Document
       Associated Grid view of a row in Microsoft Dataverse.
       Before you can use OneNote, it must be enabled by your system administrator. More
       information:
         Find your administrator or support person
         Set up OneNote integration
       Start a new OneNote notebook
        1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
         contact row.
        2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
        3. Select Document Location, and select the location where you want to save the
         notebook. For more information, see View existing OneDrive documents.
        4. Select New, and then select OneNote.
        5. Enter a name for the notebook, and then select Save. A new notebook is created
         and opened.
      Open an existing OneNote notebook
        1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a
         contact row.
        2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
        3. Select Document Location, and select the location of your notebook. For example,
         choose OneDrive if your notebook is stored on OneDrive. More information: View
         existing OneDrive documents
                 4. Select your notebook to start adding notes.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Collaborate using SharePoint
     07/15/2025
     With Microsoft Dataverse, you can store your documents on SharePoint and manage them
     from within your app. The documents that you create in your app are stored on SharePoint,
     and are automatically synced to your desktop and mobile devices.
     Before you can use SharePoint to store documents, it must be enabled by your system
     administrator. More information:
        Find your administrator or support person
        Manage your documents using SharePoint
      ） Important
         When you delete a SharePoint managed document using a Power Apps or Dynamics
         365 customer engagement app, the app permanently deletes the document from
         both the app and the SharePoint site.
         When you merge records, the app doesn't merge SharePoint document libraries. The
         app deactivates the subordinate record, but its SharePoint folder and documents
         remain accessible unless you delete them manually.
     Where do you access the documents from?
      1. For row types that support document management, open the row, select the Related tab,
        and then select Documents.
       2. Select Document Location > Documents on Default Site 1. When SharePoint is enabled,
        the location is set to Documents on Default Site 1 by default.
     Create a new document and save it to SharePoint
       1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a contact
        row.
       2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
       3. Select Document Location, and change the location to Documents on Default Site 1.
       4. Select New, and then choose a document type such as Word, Excel, or PowerPoint.
       5. Enter a document name, and then select Save.
     Create a new folder in the default SharePoint site
     location
       1. Open a row and go to the Document Associated Grid view. For example, open a contact
        row.
       2. On the open row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
       3. Select Document Location, and change the location to Documents on Default Site 1.
       4. Select New, and then choose Folder.
       5. Enter a folder name, and then select Save.
     Upload an existing document to SharePoint from
     your app
       1. Go to the row you want to create the document for, select the Related tab, and then
        select Documents.
       2. Select Upload.
       3. Choose the file you want to upload. You can choose only one file at a time.
        The document is created in the current document location you're in.
         ７ Note
         You can upload a file of up to 50 MB. If your internet connection is slow, you might
         get an error while uploading large files.
      4. If files with the same name exist in SharePoint, select whether you want to overwrite the
        files.
      5. Select OK.
     Manage SharePoint locations
     You can create new or edit existing SharePoint locations from your app in Dataverse.
     Edit a location
      1. Open a row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
      2. Select Edit Location, and then select a SharePoint site location.
        The Edit Location dialog box appears.
      3. The display name, parent site, and folder name are automatically populated. Enter details
        about the new location, and then select Save.
     Add a new location
      1. Open a row, select the Related tab, and then select Documents.
      2. Select Add Location.
        The Add Location dialog box appears.
       3. The display name, parent site, and folder name are automatically populated. Change the
        details if necessary, and then select Save.
     Files tab FAQ
     Why was the location to access documents moved?
        We moved the command to make documents easier to find with fewer clicks.
     Has the Documents tab gone away?
        No, it hasn't gone away. Users can still access the documents associated with the row in
        question the old way, simply by selecting the Related menu and then the Documents link.
     With the change, will subfolders in SharePoint still be created automatically?
        Yes. The behavior is similar to that of the Documents link under the Related menu. When
        a user selects the Files tab for the first time, the corresponding SharePoint subfolder is
        created by the system.
     Is there a way to add the Files tab to other tables, or remove it?
        Yes. To add or remove the Files tab, follow the steps in this article: Add the SharePoint
        documents tab to the main form for a table
       Use @mention to collaborate with your
       team using Notes
       Article • 03/21/2025
       Collaborate effortlessly by mentioning your coworkers in Notes on the timeline.
       The administrator must enable the @mention people when in rich text editor to add
       and notify user settings in Power Platform admin center and enable in-app notifications
       for the app for this capability to be available.
        ） Important
        Users must have the Read privilege for the msdyn_postconfig entity, as well as the
        Share privilege for the entity for which they use @mentions (for example, account,
        contact, case, and so forth).
       @mention a user in Notes
         1. Open a row and go to the activity timeline on the page.
         2. Add a note by selecting Enter a note.
         3. In the Description field, enter @ and the first few letters of the person’s first name
          to see a list of options.
         4. Select the name you want.
          If the user doesn't already have permission to view the row and you have the Share
          privilege for the row, you're asked to provide basic read permission for the row
          you're adding a note on.
       Notifications
         1. The notification bell icon indicates a new notification when you're @mentioned in
          a note.
         2. Open the notification center and select the notification to navigate to the record
          on which you were mentioned.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
                Compare search options in Microsoft
                Dataverse
                Article • 04/05/2025
                There are three ways to search rows in Dataverse:
                       Dataverse search
                       Quick Find (single-table or multi-table)
                       Advanced Find
                   ７ Note
                   Multi-table Quick Find is also called Categorized Search. For a given query, the
                   search results from the following three options might be different due to the search
                   cope and search behavior.
                The following table provides a brief comparison of the three options.
                                                                                                           ﾉ Expand table
                 Functionality       Dataverse search             Quick Find                  Advanced Find
                 Enabled by          "On" state for all new       Yes, for the table grid.    Yes
                 default             production                   No, for multiple-table
                                     environments.                quick find (categorized
                                     "Default" state for all      search). An
                                     other environments.          administrator must
                                     Learn more about how         first disable Dataverse
                                     Dataverse search             search before
                                     works.                       multiple-table grid
                                                                  find can be enabled.
                 Single-table        Not available in a table     Available in a table        Available in a table grid.
                 search scope        grid. You can filter the     grid.
                                     search results by a
                                     table on the results
                                     page.
                 Multi-table         There's no maximum           Searches up to 10           Multi-table search not
                 search scope        limit on the number of       tables, grouped by a        available.
                                     tables you can search.       table.
                 Functionality      Dataverse search             Quick Find                  Advanced Find
                 Search             Finds matches to any         Finds matches to all        Query builder where you can
                 behavior           word in the search           words in the search         define search criteria for the
                                    term in any column in        term in one column in       selected row type. Can also
                                    the table.                   a table; however, the       be used to prepare data for
                                                                 words can be matched        export to Office Excel so that
                                                                 in any order in the         you analyze, summarize, or
                                                                 column.                     aggregate data, or create
                                                                                             PivotTables to view your
                                                                                             data from different
                                                                                             perspectives.
                 Searchable         Text columns like            All searchable              All searchable columns.
                 columns            Single Line of Text,         columns.
                                    Multiple Lines of Text,
                                    Lookups, and Option
                                    Sets. Doesn't support
                                    searching in columns
                                    of Numeric or Date
                                    data type.
                 Search results     Returns the search           For single-table,           Returns search results of the
                                    results in order of their    returns the search          selected row type with the
                                    relevance, in a single       results in a table grid.    columns you have specified,
                                    list.                        For multi-table, returns    in the sort order you have
                                                                 the search results          configured.
                                                                 grouped by categories,
                                                                 such as accounts,
                                                                 contacts, or leads.
                 Wildcards (*)      Trailing wildcard            Leading wildcard            Leading wildcard supported.
                                    supported for word           supported. Trailing
                                    completion.                  wildcard added by
                                                                 default.
                Feedback
                                                       
                Was this page helpful?         Yes         No
                Provide product feedback
     What is Dataverse search?
     Dataverse search is the foundation that enables Copilot and in-app search experiences to
     understand and process business data. It turns raw information into actionable intelligence.
                                                    
     Dataverse search powers global search experiences, API calls, and agents built with Copilot
     Studio, including those running on Microsoft 365 Copilot and MCP tools. Beyond helping users
     of model-driven apps quickly, find what they need, Dataverse search enables rich search and
     AI-driven experiences across products that use Dataverse as a data source.
     What type of data does Dataverse search index?
     Dataverse search includes structured data (tables) and unstructured data (files).
                                            
                                            
    Legend:
      1. Structured data: Supports multiple experiences, including global search, Copilot for
       model-driven apps, and Copilot Studio agents that use Dataverse knowledge from tables.
      2. Unstructured data: Supports experiences like Copilot Studio agents that use Dataverse
       knowledge from files.
    Dataverse search includes three index types:
       Relevance search: Powers global search and SearchQuery API.
       Structured index: Enables Copilot and generative AI experiences.
       Unstructured index: Enables Copilot and generative AI experiences.
     The structured and unstructured indexes enable Copilot and generative AI experiences in
     scenarios such as agents built with Copilot Studio, Copilot in Dynamics 365, declarative agents,
     app Copilot, Copilot chat, and Dataverse MCP.
     What's the value of indexed data?
     Dataverse search uses indexed Dataverse data to help systems perform more efficient searches.
     Indexed Dataverse data is enterprise content that's organized in a specific structure, like a data
     catalog. When an agent or system uses the indexed data structure, search performance
     increases based on a specific input.
     Experiences enabled by Dataverse search
     Dataverse search lets you use multiple features in Power Platform, including Copilot indexes.
     Here are the experiences:
     Microsoft Copilot Studio Agents
        Add files as a knowledge source
        Add Dataverse as a knowledge source
        Add SharePoint as a knowledge source
        Add OneDrive as a knowledge source
        Agent Copilot
     Dynamics 365 Copilots
        Sales Copilot
        Customer Service Copilot
        Contact Center Copilot
        Field Service Copilot
     Power Apps: Model-driven apps
        Copilot for app users in model-driven apps
        Dataverse search
     Experiences across the Power Platform
        In Power Apps or Power Automate
        In Microsoft Copilot Studio
        Power Apps or Power Automate—custom AI prompts
         Benefits of Dataverse search
            1. Integration with AI and Copilot experiences: By using natural language, you can have a
              conversation with your data and identify themes, patterns, and insights. This feature uses
              AI technology to interpret natural language, such as misspellings, common abbreviations,
              and synonyms, to deliver quality results.
            2. Unified search: Dataverse search lets you quickly find content in model-driven apps and
              other products that use Dataverse as a data source. It provides a better user experience
              than quick find, where all words in the search term must be found in one column.
            3. Efficient relevance-based results: Intelligent ranking algorithms return the most relevant
              records first, with performance that's superior to categorized search. This feature reduces
              time spent searching and increases accuracy.
            4. Smart fuzzy search: Dataverse search handles variations in spelling and terminology, so it
              doesn't depend on exact keyword matches.
            5. Security and compliance: Dataverse search respects Dataverse security roles and
              permissions. Users can only see search results for records that they have access to.
            6. Scalability and performance: Dataverse search is optimized for large datasets and
              supports multiple data types, such as Choice and Lookup.
            7. Search across documents in Microsoft Dataverse: Dataverse search includes search
              results for text in documents that are stored in Dataverse, such as PDF, Microsoft Office
              documents, HTML, XML, ZIP, EML, plain text, and JSON file formats. It also searches text in
              notes and attachments.
           ７ Note
           Global search supports up to 2 MB of file search.
         Dataverse search implications
         Dataverse search is an opt-out feature. The feature is On for all new production environments
         and set to Default for all other environment types. Find this setting in Power Platform admin
         center   by going to Manage > Environment > Settings > Product > Features > Dataverse
         Search.
                                                                                                                           
           In Power Platform admin center, admins can use the Dataverse Search setting to manage
           search. The selected Dataverse search state affects how to use Dataverse data across the
           enabled experiences for the entire organization. The following tables show how each Dataverse
           search setting affects global search experiences (including SearchQuery API) and Generative AI
           experiences, and how admins can use this setting to manage it.
           What Dataverse search setting means for global search
           When you set Dataverse search to On, the Global Search box appears at the top of every page
           in your model-driven app. This search box is the default global search experience for all model-
           driven apps. Learn more in Search for records by using Dataverse search.
                                                                                                             ﾉ
                                                                                                                 Expand table
             Dataverse search set to On                Dataverse search set to               Dataverse Search set to Off
                                                       Default
             Search bar is visible. (Quick Find        Search bar isn't visible. (Quick      Search bar isn't visible. (Quick
             isn't visible or accessible)              Find is an alternative)               Find is an alternative.)
             Dataverse search is used for all          Dataverse search isn't available      Dataverse search isn't available
             production environments                   for Global search in any              for Global search in any
                                                       environment                           environment
             Dataverse data is automatically           Dataverse data isn't indexed.         Dataverse data isn't indexed.
             indexed. Data is searchable for           Data isn't searchable for global      Data isn't searchable for global
             global search                             search                                search
           What Dataverse search means for generative AI enabled
           experiences
           Some generative AI experiences use Dataverse search data, such as Copilot chat in model-
           driven applications. You can access Copilot chat through the Copilot icon in the right
           navigation bar in a model-driven app. You can open or minimize the Copilot chat pane as
           needed.
                Power Apps: Copilot chat for model-driven apps in Power Apps is a next-generation AI
                assistant that helps app users get insights about the data in their apps through
                conversation in natural language.
                Copilot Studio: Integrating Dataverse tables as your knowledge source allows you to
                ground your agent in the data contained in your tables. This integration can also happen
                by using unstructured data as knowledge or Dataverse tools.
             ７ Note
             An enabled generative AI feature's availability isn't managed by Dataverse search itself
             and is enabled through its own feature setting.
                                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
            Dataverse search set to On       Dataverse search set to Default                  Dataverse search set
                                                                                              to Off
            All production environments      Sandbox, Trial, Developer, Dataverse for Teams   No environment uses
            use Dataverse search             environments use Dataverse search for            Dataverse search
                                             generative AI experiences
            Dataverse data is                Dataverse data (tables and files) is indexed     Dataverse data isn't
            automatically indexed and        when triggered and becomes searchable            indexed nor
            becomes searchable                                                                searchable
          What actions can makers or admins take to
          manage Dataverse search efficiently?
          Depending on the experience that uses Dataverse search and its usage, consumption size can
          increase. The following recommendations help you optimize storage consumption for efficient
          and value-added output, from granular and less impactful actions (data level) to broader and
          more impactful actions (environment level).
             ７ Note
             While one action helps optimize the amount of indexed data within a specific feature,
             other enabled features might trigger index provisioning. For more impactful approaches,
             go through all the steps, in order of recommendation, or consider turning off features in
             the Power Platform admin center.
         Data level
         To manage the search index at the data level, review each table and each column to confirm
         that search is needed. If not, take the following actions:
         Global Search: Break down tables into multiple columns
         Why this helps?
         Indexed data includes structures like inverted indexes, metadata, and pointers to enable fast
         search and retrieval. These components add overhead beyond the raw data and can
         significantly increase storage requirements compared to the original dataset.
         How to implement?
              Ensure the data is consistently formatted across records to increase repetitiveness of
              words and reduce the number of indexes.
              By breaking down the data across multiple columns, you can be more specific about
              which data to search over.
         Global Search: Only select columns that need to be searchable
         Why this helps?
         Dataverse search has default selected columns. By default, certain columns like Primary Name
         and ID are indexed for all tables. These columns are part of the 50 fields indexed by default and
         don't count toward the limit for every table. Enable columns for Dataverse search only if a
         Quick Find view is set as the default view for the table. For more information, see Managing
         Dataverse search.
         How to unselect tables that aren't used so that they're not indexed or
         searchable
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Solutions.
            3. Choose the solution you want to modify, and then select Edit in the command bar.
            4. On the Objects page, in the navigation pane, select Overview.
            5. In the Dataverse search pane, select Manage search index.
            6. Review the tables that are indexed.
            7. Unselect the tables, and then select Save.
         How to unselect columns that aren't used so that they're not indexed
         or searchable
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. On the left navigation pane, select Tables.
            3. On the Tables page, select the table you want to edit.
            4. In the Data experiences pane, select Views.
            5. From the list of views, select the Quick Find view type. For example, select Quick Find
              Active Accounts.
            6. Edit View columns.
            7. Go to the columns you want to remove, and select Remove in the dropdown menu.
            8. Select Save and Publish to publish the changes to the view.
         Copilot Studio: Ensure specific Dataverse tables or files are added to
         Copilot Studio agent's knowledge
         Why this helps?
         When you add a Dataverse tool or knowledge, such as Dataverse MCP, Dataverse table, or file
         to a Copilot Studio agent, the process automatically indexes all the underlying Dataverse data
         for efficient, semantically relevant searches. Reducing knowledge and tools to only the
         necessary content helps indexing processing and storage consumption and increases search
         quality.
         How to remove unnecessary content or imagery, or tables from files
              File Upload, OneDrive, and SharePoint upload: Remove files that aren't needed for
              search from the agent's knowledge base. You might want to consider removing pages,
              sheets, or any accessory data point from the files themselves.
              OneDrive and SharePoint upload: Select only the files or folders you need instead of
              selecting nested folders.
         How to remove Dataverse tables or files from Copilot studio agent’s
         knowledge
         In the Overview or Knowledge tabs on a Copilot Studio agent, go to the Knowledge section
         and select the dot menu for each of the Dataverse-enabled knowledge sources, and then select
         Delete. Use the same instructions for the following knowledge sources:
              Dataverse Tables
              Files you upload
       OneDrive files
       SharePoint files (from upload)
     ７ Note
     The same process applies to Dataverse MCP tools, but you complete it in the Tools section
     (instead of the Knowledge section).
    App or agent level
    To manage the search index at the app or agent level, review the purpose and usage of each
    application and agent to confirm search is needed. If not, take the following actions:
    Copilot for Power Apps: Specify which applications you'd like Copilot to
    be enabled for
    Why this helps?
    Copilot in model-driven apps uses AI to interpret natural language queries and generates
    suggestions or actions based on the app's underlying Dataverse data. In some situations,
    applications don't require enhanced search through Copilot, so managing Copilot at an app
    level can help control consumption.
    How to turn off Copilot feature for each model-driven application
      1. In the app designer, open the model-driven app for editing.
      2. Select Settings from the command bar.
      3. On the Settings screen, select Upcoming.
      4. Select the Copilot control setting, and set it to Off.
      5. Select Save and Publish to apply your changes.
    Copilot for Dynamics 365 Apps: Specify which applications you'd like
    Copilot to be enabled for
    Why this helps?
    Just like model-driven applications in Power Apps, Copilot in model-driven apps uses AI to
    interpret natural language queries and generate suggestions or actions based on the app's
    underlying Dataverse data. In some situations, applications don't require that level of enhanced
    search through Copilot. Managing Copilot at an app level can help with consumption control.
    How to turn off Copilot feature for each Dynamics 365 application
      1. In the Sales Hub app, change the area by using the option in the lower-left corner of the
       page.
      2. Select App Settings to open sales setting.
      3. Select Copilot > Edit settings > Advanced settings, which opens a new Copilot in
       Dynamics 365 Sales page.
      4. Select Individual apps.
      5. Select desired app and turn the setting to Off.
    How to turn off Copilot feature for all Dynamics 365 application
      1. In the Sales Hub app, change the area by using the option in the lower-left corner of the
       page.
      2. Select App Settings to open sales setting.
      3. Select Copilot > Edit settings > Advanced settings, which opens a new Copilot in
       Dynamics 365 Sales page.
      4. Select All Apps and turn the setting to Off.
    The other way to turn off Copilot feature for all apps is as follows:
      1. In the Sales Hub app, change the area by using the option in the lower-left corner of the
       page.
      2. Select App Settings to open sales settings.
      3. Select Copilot > Edit settings.
      4. Select Off from the Copilot dropdown, which opens a dialog box.
      5. Select Continue, and then save your changes.
    Environment level
    To manage the search index at the environment level, admins can review the purpose and
    usage of each application and agent, as well as global search to confirm that search is needed.
    If not, admins can take the following actions:
    Global search is disabled while Copilot experiences are enabled
    Why this helps?
    When Dataverse search is set to Default, the global search experience isn't enabled on the
    navigation of the model-driven apps or Dynamics 365. This setting means that users can't
    query global search, and data marked as "searchable" for the exclusive purpose of global
    search isn't indexed. However, Dataverse data might still be indexed for other experiences,
    such as Copilot in model-driven applications or Copilot Studio agents.
    How to change Dataverse search to Default value
      1. In Power Platform admin center, go to Manage > Environments.
      2. Select the environment, and then select Settings.
      3. Select Product > Features.
      4. Change Dataverse search to Default.
      5. Select Save.
     ７ Note
     For organizations that want to search in these applications and don't need relevance-
     based search, they can enable Quick Find.
    Copilot for Power Apps and Dynamics 365 apps is disabled while global
    search is anabled
    Why this helps?
    Copilot in Power Apps uses Dataverse indexed data to quickly retrieve and interpret relevant
    records when responding to natural language queries within the model-driven app. The
    semantic indexes enable efficient search across tables and relationships, allowing Copilot to
    provide accurate suggestions and automate actions based on the underlying data context. For
    organizations that don't want Copilot to be used with their model-driven applications, admins
    can turn off the feature at an environment level.
    How to turn off the Copilot setting in Power Platform admin center
      1. In Power Platform admin center, go to Manage > Environments.
      2. Select the environment, and then select Settings.
      3. Select Product > Features.
      4. Turn the toggle and the set the dropdown to Off:
    Dataverse search isn't needed for the environment
       Why this helps?
       At any time, you can manually set Dataverse to Off. If you set Dataverse search to "Off" for the
       environment, all users of features, apps, or agents of the environment can't use the search
       capability in the Power Apps navigation bar or any generative AI experience that relies on
       Dataverse, like uploaded files or using OneDrive or SharePoint files (via upload) in Microsoft
       Copilot Studio agents, among other experiences.
       How to turn off Dataverse search for the environment
         1. In Power Platform admin center, go to Manage > Environments.
         2. Select the environment, and then select Settings.
         3. Select Product > Features.
         4. Change Dataverse search to Off. This change opens a dialog box. Acknowledge the
           impact of turning off Dataverse search, write the name of the environment, and select
           Turn Off:
         5. Select Save.
         ７ Note
             Turning off Dataverse search deprovisions and removes the index within a period of
             12 hours. If you turn on Dataverse search after it's been off for 12 hours, it provisions
             a fresh index that needs to go through a full sync. Syncing might take up to an hour
             or more for average size organizations, and a couple of days for large organizations.
             Be sure to consider these implications when you turn off Dataverse search
             temporarily. Configure Dataverse search for your environment
             Index removal (or provisioning) can take multiple days to be completed, depending
             on the amount of Dataverse search consumption. For example, an organization with
             10 GB of indexed data might take one day to clean up all indexes, while an
             organization with 500 GB might take multiple days to see it reflected in Dataverse
             search reporting. Give a few days or a week before submitting a support ticket, to
             ensure a complete removal of Dataverse search indexed data.
       What happens when you turn off Dataverse
       search?
                                                                  ﾉ
                                                                     Expand table
            Feature             Maker experience                                End user experience
            Microsoft Copilot   You can't upload files or select Dataverse      The agent doesn't provide results
            Studio Agent –      tables. The agent doesn't provide results that  that rely on this indexed data until
            Add Knowledge       rely on this indexed data until Dataverse       Dataverse search is enabled for the
                                search is enabled for the environment. Ask      environment. The agent uses the
                                the environment's admin to enable Dataverse     fallback answer by default.
                                search.
            Microsoft Copilot   The agent doesn't provide results that rely on  The agent doesn't provide results
            Studio Agent –      this indexed data until Dataverse search is     that rely on this indexed data until
            Using Copilot       enabled for the environment. Ask your           Dataverse search is enabled for the
            Chat                environment admin to enable Dataverse           environment. By default, the agent
                                search.                                         uses a fallback answer.
            Model Driven        The search bar isn't visible in model-driven    The search bar isn't visible in
            Applications –      apps.                                           model-driven apps.
            Dataverse search
          See also
          Search for tables and rows by using Dataverse search
          Configure facets and filters
          Frequently asked questions about Dataverse search
          Developer's guide: Search for Dataverse records using the API
          Compare search options in Microsoft Dataverse
           Last updated on 01/13/2026
     Search for records by using Dataverse
     search
     When Dataverse search is "On", the search box appears at the top of every page in your app and
     is the default global search experience for all model-driven apps. Dataverse search also lets you
     use certain generative AI experiences. You can't switch to quick find search, also known as
     categorized search. Start a new search to quickly find the information you need.
     Turn on Dataverse search to give users a better search experience in model-driven apps.
     Environment admins can manage their environments by selecting Off to opt out of this feature.
     [!Note] If Dataverse search is set to "Default", the search box isn't visible for searching content.
     Generative AI experiences are still available.
     See recent rows and searches
     See your recent searches and recently accessed rows when you select the search box. Before you
     start typing in the search box, you'll see information pop-up that helps you complete your search.
     Up to three recent search terms appear at the top, based on the last three search queries that
     you viewed the results for. These recent search terms are personalized and based on your device
     and browser.
     The recent search terms are followed by up to seven of the rows you recently accessed. If you
     frequently access a few rows, you can quickly get to them from here. Recently accessed rows are
     independent of tables that have been indexed for Dataverse search, because no search has been
     performed yet. The rows are also grouped by table type, which lets you quickly scan the list.
     Legend
       1. Recent searches: Shows your recent searches.
       2. Recently accessed rows: Shows rows that you recently accessed, grouped by table type.
     Inline suggestions
      ７ Note
      If you're using custom analyzers for searching records, the records don't show in the inline
      suggestions.
     As you start entering text, you'll see suggested results that help minimize keystrokes and simplify
     page navigation. Suggested results are based on a search performed on all searchable columns
     of a table, which is enabled for Dataverse search and included in your model-driven app. For
     more information, see Add or edit model-driven app components in the Power Apps app
     designer.
     Suggestions are shown when three or more characters are entered in the search box, and are
     based on two types of matching:
        Word completion: Rows where the primary field contains a word that begins with the
        search term. For example, entering work will show the account AdventureWorks and the
        contact John Worker, among other results.
      Fuzzy search: Terms that are misspelled by one character are matched. For example,
      entering winry will show the account Coho Winery, among other results.
    Suggested rows display a secondary field alongside the primary field to help differentiate rows
    with the same primary field value. The secondary field is selected based on the table’s quick find
    view:
      If the search text appears in a field within the quick find view, that field is used as the
      secondary field.
      If no match is found, the first non-primary field in the quick find view that contains data for
      the row is displayed instead.
    With suggestions, you can access your information quickly by using minimal keystrokes even
    when the search term is misspelled by a character. Text that's highlighted in bold in the
    suggestions shows the term that was matched.
     Search results page
     View the full results for a search by pressing Enter on your keyboard or selecting Show more
     results. Dataverse search will append "*" to the search if two or less characters are entered.
     Search results are ranked based on relevance and grouped by tables. The list of tables that
     include rows that match the search term are displayed horizontally as tabs along the top of the
     screen.
     When a search query contains multiple words, it's automatically split into individual search terms.
     Additionally, our fuzzy search feature expands results by including related words such as
     synonyms, acronyms, and abbreviations. For example, searching for "Robert Clark" might return
     results for "Bob Clark" due to fuzzy matching and "John Clark" because one of the search terms
     matches. To ensure an exact match, enclose the entire query in double quotes (for example,
     "Robert Clark").
     To understand why a row appears in your search results, hover over the icon at the beginning of
     each row to see the text that matched your search.
      ７ Note
      Rows returned in the search grid can't be sorted.
    Top results tab
    The Top results tab displays the top 20 results for the search term, with results grouped by table
    type. Each group shows results for a table in a grid that has up to six columns. The columns are
    the first six columns of the table's View columns quick find view.
     ７ Note
       The primary column of a table is always used as the first column in the results on the
       Top results tab.
       For notes and attachment tables, two additional columns show information about the
       related row for that note or attachment.
       Party list columns on activity tables—such as To, CC, and attendees—can't be searched
       on or shown, and will be blank.
    In the following image, the top search results from three tables are displayed.
    Legend:
     1. Top results: This tab shows the top 20 results for your search term.
     2. Rows grouped by table type: To narrow your search results to a specific table, select the
      table-specific tab.
     3. Show more: When you select Show more at the bottom of a group, you switch to the table-
      specific tab.
    Table-specific tabs
    Tabs for the specific tables that contain search results are displayed horizontally. The exact order
    of the tables from left to right (in a left-to-right environment) is based on the relevance of the
    results. You can collapse the filter panel or hover over the list of tabs to scroll horizontally.
    The tables that include the rows in the top 20 results are shown in the first three tabs from left to
    right, from most to least relevant. The tables that include the results outside of the top 20 are
    displayed in descending order.
    Legend:
       Shows the top 20 results from three different tables.
       Shows the three tables that are part of the top results, ordered by relevance.
       Shows the rest of the matched table types, ordered by the number of records that match
    the search.
    Select a tab to drill down into a specific table and view more information about the rows in the
    results.
    Legend:
     1. Shows the number of results for this specific table.
     2. Shows the columns that were searched for the table.
    Each table-specific tab displays more information than the Top results tab along two different
    dimensions:
      If the quick find view for the table has more than six View Column, then all columns are
      displayed on the table-specific tab, compared to the maximum of six columns shown on the
      Top results tab.
      All matching rows for the table are accessible in the table-specific tab as an infinitely
      scrollable list.
    Scope search to a specific table
    You can narrow Dataverse search to a single table so that results include only records from the
    table you choose, instead of searching across all tables. Scoping your search to a specific table is
    useful when you already know the type of record you're looking for and want to reduce noise
    from unrelated results.
    To scope your search to a specific table:
     1. Select the search box to begin a search.
     2. Choose the table you want to search from the table selector.
            3. Enter your search term. The results include only records from the selected table.
         Filter results by using facets
         On the search results page, you can use facets and filters to refine and explore your search
         results. Facets are available on the Filter panel, which you can expand or collapse.
         The Top results tab shows search results across different row types, such as a contact versus a
         phone call. Thus, the Top results tab only shows the three global facets that apply to all row
         types:
              Owner
              Modified On
              Created On
         On a table-specific tab, facets that apply to that table type are displayed above the three global
         facets.
                                                                                               ﾉ
                                                                                                   Expand table
          The Top results tab shows only global facets        Other tabs show facets that are specific to that
                                                              table type
         You can personalize facets for a table by using the Set Personal Options dialog box. More
         information: Configure facets and filters
         Text-based facets with discrete values
         All Lookup and Choice data types are text-based facets. For example, the text-based facet
         Priority consists of a list of column values (choices) and their corresponding counts.
    Filters in these facets are sorted in descending order by count. By default, the top four-facet
    values are displayed. When there are more than four-facet values, you can select Show more to
    expand the list and see up to 15 results.
    When you select a facet value, you filter search results to show only rows where the column
    includes the value that you selected.
    Date and time facets
    The date and time facets let you filter and see search results for a specific period. Use the From
    and To drop-down lists to specify a time period.
     Feedback link
     On the search results page, the answer to Did you find what you were looking for? is collected
     in our product telemetry as a binary feedback. Search parameters—like the query text that you
     entered in the search box—isn't collected, irrespective of your response to the question. We only
     use Yes or No response statistics to help us understand the usefulness of the search experience.
     Currently there's no option to disable the feedback question prompt.
     Understand search results
     Dataverse search has a powerful set of capabilities to help you put Microsoft Dataverse at your
     fingertips. Here are some pointers to help you understand what results you can expect in
     different scenarios.
     ７ Note
       Dataverse search is text-based, and can search only on columns of type Single line of
       text, Multiple lines of text, Choice, or Lookup. Columns of type Numeric and Date
       aren't searched on.
       Dataverse search enables you to search for rows that are shared with you and rows that
       you own. Hierarchical security models aren't supported. This means that even if you see
       a row in Dataverse because you have access to it through hierarchical security, you
       won't see that row matched by Dataverse search unless you own it or it was shared
       with you.
       Dataverse search supports column level security. This means that a user with access to
       a restricted column can search for the column and will see it in the search results. A
       user that doesn't have permission to the restricted column won't be able to search or
       see results for the column.
      Tip
     The order of tables in the Top results tab and in the horizontal list of tabs is based on the
     ranking and relevance of search results for that search term. You can make results from a
     particular table appear at the top by including the table name in the search term. For
     example, searching for account fabrikam would, in most cases, rank result records that have
     the term fabrikam of type account higher than result records that have the term fabrikam of
     type other than account.
      Boosted search results
      Use important attributes as keywords to "boost" your search for information. Entering a
      table type to boost search results is an easy way to indicate which results you prefer. For
      example, searching for Susan Adatum indicates that you're looking for a contact Susan
      related to the account Adatum.
      Natural language understanding
      Search has a better understanding of terms that are used to indicated intent. Some
      examples include:
        Searching for open phone calls will show phone call activity records that have the status
        open.
         Searching for contact missing email will show contacts who have an empty email
         address field, rather than treating missing as a keyword.
       Spelling correction
       Search forgives common spelling mistakes. For example, when you search for william
       conatc, search results will include the contact record with the name William, even though
       the word contact was misspelled.
       Synonyms, acronyms, and abbreviations
       With support for common abbreviations and synonyms, you can search for your information
       the way you remember it, not necessarily the way it's stored. Some examples include:
         Common name variations like Bob/Robert are matched with either search term.
         A search term that uses an abbreviation like active accts will be interpreted semantically
         as "active accounts."
       The power of common knowledge
       Search can understand popular locations, date, time, holidays, and numbers. For example, a
       search for account in WA will generate results for accounts located in Washington state.
      ７ Note
         All the preceding capabilities are part of intelligent search, which is only available for
         public cloud environments that have English as the base language.
         To get these results, the preceding examples assume that specific fields for each table
         were indexed.
     Working with operators
     Operators help you craft precise search queries that can tailor your results according to specific
     conditions. This section describes some of the supported operators.
     Boolean operators
     Search on a combination of terms using the + operator, which performs an AND search and
     shows results containing all the individual terms separated by +. For example, alpine + paul
     returns the contact record Paul Cannon related to the account record Alpine Ski House.
    Similarly, the OR operator can be indicated by separating terms with a vertical bar (|). For
    example, searching for alpine | paul returns records with reference to either term.
    Use the NOT operator with a hyphen (-) before a keyword to indicate that it should be excluded
    from results.
    For example, when you search for evaluation, all rows matching the term evaluation will appear
    in results.
    However, searching for evaluation + -agreed will match all rows that contain the term evaluation
    but not the term agreed.
    Wildcards
    Use wildcards for operators such as begins-with and ends-with. Using an asterisk (*) at the
    beginning or end of a keyword makes the asterisk a placeholder for zero or more characters. For
    example, searching on *win will show results for all records associated with a keyword that ends
    with win.
     Exact matches
     Use double quotation marks around a keyword to perform an exact match. Search ignores
     common used words such as the, an, and a. To improve matching, use double quotation marks
     and force an exact match for your search. For example, searching on "Call back for resolution
     (sample)" will match the exact keywords.
     Quick actions
     The Dataverse search experience brings some of the most frequently used actions closer to
     search results, to help you complete your task without having to navigate to the record page in
        model-driven apps.
        Quick actions are a small set of commands specific to a table. You can see quick actions when
        you're interacting with search in model-driven apps running on a web browser. Some of the
        commonly used tables are configured to show a set of commands to help you complete your
        task without losing context.
                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
         Table              Quick actions
         Account            Assign, Share, Email a link
         Contact            Assign, Share, Email a link
         Appointment        Mark complete, Cancel, Set Regarding, Assign, Email a link
         Task               Mark complete, Cancel, Set Regarding, Assign, Email a link
         Phone Call         Mark complete, Cancel, Set Regarding, Assign, Email a link
         Email              Cancel, Set Regarding, Email a link
        For more information on how to configure quick actions, see Configure Dataverse search to
        improve search results and performance.
        Quick actions and suggested results
        As you interact with search, you'll find quick actions next to the most recently accessed records
        and the suggested results that appear as you type.
                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                        Expand table
         Quick actions for recently accessed rows     Quick actions for suggested results as you type
        Quick actions in results pages
    As you type, quick actions will appear for suggested results.
    On the results page, hover over the results to see quick actions available for the row.
     Use keyboard shortcuts
     The following keyboard shortcuts apply to grids. For more information, see:
         Navigation
         Editing
         Selection
     See also
     What is Dataverse search?
     Configure facets and filters
     Frequently asked questions about Dataverse search
      Last updated on 07/15/2026
       Configure facets and filters
       Article • 02/15/2022
       With Microsoft Dataverse, you can refine your search results by using facets and filters.
       Facets and filters let you drill into and explore the results of your current search without
       having to repeatedly refine your search terms.
       In the Set Personal Options dialog box, you can personalize the facets for a table.
        ７ Note
        Your admin can use the quick find view to define which fields appear as default
        facets when you use Dataverse search. The first four view columns that include data
        types other than Single line of text or Multiple lines of text are displayed as
        default facets in the result. You can override this setting in your personalization
        settings. At any time, you can select up to four fields as facets.
        1. In the upper-right corner, select Settings, and then select Personalization Settings.
        2. On the General tab, in the Select the default search experience section, for Facets
         and Filters, select Configure.
       3. In the Configure Facets and Filters dialog box, specify the facets you'd like to see
        for a table:
           In the Select Table drop-down list, select the table you want to configure
           facets for. This drop-down list contains only the tables that are enabled for
           Dataverse search.
           For the selected table, select up to four facet columns. By default, the first
           four "facet-able" columns in the quick find view for the selected table are
           selected in the list. At any time, you can only have four columns selected as
           facets.
      You can update multiple tables at a time. When you select OK, the changes for all tables
      that you've configured are saved. To revert to the default behavior for a table that you
      previously configured, select Default.
       ７ Note
       If a system customizer deletes a column or makes it no longer searchable, and
       you've saved a facet for that column, it will no longer show up as a facet. You'll only
       see the columns that exist in the default solution and have been configured as
       searchable by your system customizer.
      See also
              What is Dataverse search?
              Search for tables and rows by using Dataverse search
              Frequently asked questions about Dataverse search
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Frequently asked questions about
     Dataverse search
     What is Dataverse search?
     Dataverse search is the foundation that enables Copilot and in-app search experiences to
     understand and process business data. It helps organizations turn raw information into
     meaningful insights. For more information about Dataverse search and its enabled experiences,
     see What is Dataverse search.
     What is the difference between "On" and "Default"
     state for Dataverse search?
     The state you select for Dataverse search affects the ability to use Dataverse data across the
     enabled experiences for your organization. For a better understanding of what each Dataverse
     search state means, see:
        What Dataverse search setting means for global search
        What Dataverse search means for generative AI enabled experiences
     What is the scope of content searched by
     Dataverse search using Global Search?
     Any file or Dataverse knowledge added to Agents or model-driven apps defines the scope of
     content that's searched.
     What are the column types that Dataverse search
     can search by using Global Search?
     The Find Columns on a Quick Find View define the searchable fields in the Dataverse search
     index. Text fields such as Single Line of Text and Multiple Lines of Text, Lookups, and Option
     Sets are searchable. Find Columns of all other data types such as Integer and Double are
     ignored. For more information, see Select searchable fields and filters for each table.
     Why don't I see Global Search results from a table
     that I enabled for Dataverse search?
     If a table isn't part of the model-driven app, it isn't included in search results. Use the Power
     Apps app designer to verify that the table is included in that app's components. Make sure that
     the table has a default Quick Find View created and defined. A default Quick Find View is
     created with a table, but if you remove it, you need to select the Quick Find View you want and
     set as the default for your table. For more information, see Add or edit model-driven app
     components.
     Can I configure quick actions to show or hide
     certain commands?
     Yes, you can configure quick actions by using version 9.2.21034.00126 or later. Quick actions
     are a subset of a table's grid-level command set. You can configure them by using ribbon rules.
     For more information on how to configure quick actions, see Configure Dataverse search to
     improve search results and performance.
     Why are results that appear in suggestions
     sometimes not seen on the results page?
     Suggestions are quick results based on a search performed on the primary column of a table.
     This feature is enabled for Dataverse search in model-driven apps. Learn more in Inline
     suggestions.
     When you go to the results page, the search terms are treated as the complete search query.
     The search performs many more types of matching to display a more comprehensive set of
     results.
     Can I configure the order of tables appearing in
     the Global Search results page?
     The order of tables in the Top results tab and in the horizontal list of tabs is based on the
     ranking and relevance of search results for that search term. You can make results from a
     particular table appear at the top by including the table name in the search term. For example,
     searching for account fabrikam usually ranks result records that have the term fabrikam of
     type account higher than result records that have the term fabrikam of a type other than
     account.
     Can I see search results from SharePoint files and
     documents through Global Search?
     Currently, Dataverse search searches your data in Microsoft Dataverse only. It doesn't search
     SharePoint files and documents, including the names of the files and the content in the files. It
     also doesn't search objects of File data type in Dataverse.
     Why am I unable to view information for party list
     fields like To, From, and CC in full results?
     Party list fields are special fields. Dataverse search doesn't support them, and it doesn't include
     them in the search results page.
     Why don't returns support HTML formatting for
     memo data types?
     Dataverse search doesn't return HTML formatting for memo types to optimize the UI
     experience.
     Why aren't columns enabled for Dataverse search
     after adding them to a quick find view, to use them
     in Global Search?
     Columns are enabled for Dataverse search only if a quick find view is set as the default view.
     For more information on how to set a default view, see Specify a default view for a table.
     Why doesn't search on the OwnerID attribute work
     when I enable search on it?
     The search and suggest operations don't have access to data from the Owner column. For
     more information, see Types of columns.
     Why doesn't search on the RegardingObjectId
     attribute work when I enable search on it?
     Search doesn't support polymorphic lookup attributes. The RegardingObjectId attribute in
     activity tables like email and task is a polymorphic lookup attribute.
     How is the Dataverse search API throttled?
     When you use the Dataverse search API, throttling limits restrict you to one request per second
     for each user. Additionally, each organization can make up to 150 requests per minute.
     What attribute types does Dataverse search
     indexing support?
        BigInt
        Boolean
        Customer
         DateTime
         Decimal
         Double
         EntityName
         Integer
         Lookup
         Memo
         Money
         Owner
         Picklist
         State
         Status
         String
         Uniqueidentifier
         Virtual (only for MultiSelectPicklistType and FileType)
      What attribute types are eligible for facet list
      fields?
         Lookup
         DateTime
         Money
         Picklist
         Integer
         Customer
         Decimal
         MultiSelectPicklist
         State
         Status
      How can I use the Dataverse search API?
      See Developer's guide: Search for Dataverse records using the API.
      Does Dataverse search support US Government
      clouds?
      Dataverse search strives to maintain functional parity between our commercially available
      services and those available through our US Government clouds. It's available in US
      Government Community Cloud (GCC), US GCC High, and Department of Defense (DoD).
      How is Dataverse search reported?
      In addition to the database and file storage, Dataverse search includes the indexes that power
      different experiences. These indexes support search and generative AI across structured or
      tabular, and unstructured data stored in Dataverse, including files. Dataverse search storage
      appears at the environment level in the DataverseSearch table, previously called
      RelevanceSearch.
      Learn more in Dataverse capacity-based storage.
      What actions can admins take to manage
      Dataverse search?
      Depending on the experience that uses Dataverse search and its usage, the consumption size
      might increase. To learn more about managing Dataverse search, see What is Dataverse search.
      What happens if I turn off Dataverse search?
      If you set Dataverse search to Off for the environment, you can't use the search capability in
      the Power Apps navigation bar or any generative AI experience that relies on Dataverse. This
      limitation includes experiences like uploaded files or using OneDrive or SharePoint files (via
      upload) in Microsoft Copilot Studio agents, among other experiences. For details about these
      limitations, see What is Dataverse search.
      See also
      What is Dataverse search?
      Search for tables and rows using Dataverse search
      Configure facets and filters
       Last updated on 01/13/2026
       Use quick find search
       Article • 10/22/2024
       Quickly search across multiple tables at the same time and find the information that
       you're looking for. When you enter a search term the system finds matches to all words
       in the search term in one column within a table. The words can be matched in any order
       in the column.
       With categorized search, you can search for rows that begin with a specific word or use
       a wildcard character.
          Begins with: Results include rows that begin with a specific word. For example, if
          you want to search for "Alpine Ski House," type alp in the search box; if you type
          ski, the row won't show up.
          Wildcard: For example, *ski or *ski*.
            ７ Note
            Using a wildcard at the beginning of your quick find (single or multiple-table)
            search query might result in slower performance.
       Single table quick find
       Single table quick find is also called grid search. For more information, see Grid search.
       Multiple-table quick find (categorized search)
       Multiple-table quick find searches up to 10 tables and returns the search results
       grouped by table.
       You can view a maximum of 80 rows per table with multiple-table quick find. You might
       need to refine your query, if the row that you're looking for is outside the maximum
       range.
         1. To start a categorized search, on the command bar, select Search.
                 2. Type your search words in the search box, and then select Search. The search
                    results are grouped by table such as Products, Reservations, and Reviews.
                 3. Select a table from the Filter with list to filter results by table type. To search across
                    all tables, select None.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Advanced find in model-driven apps
       Article • 01/16/2024
       The topic covers the various different ways to use the advanced find experience.
       Search for rows and create personal views with
       modern advanced find
       When your administrator enables the modern advanced find experience, it lets you
       search for rows and create personal views in your app. Depending on how search is
       setup for your app, the search experience might look a little different. Your administrator
       can turn on Dataverse search or disable it.
         1. To start a search, choose one of the following:
             Dataverse search enabled: If your administrator has enabled Dataverse
             search, you will see a search bar at the top. Select the search box and then
             select Search for rows in a table using advanced filters to see the list of
             tables to choose from.
               Tip
              Search for rows in a table using advanced filters option appears at the
              bottom of the search drop-down menu, only when you have not entered
              a search term. Once you start typing, you will see results for the search
              term, with an option to see more search results.
             Dataverse search disabled: If your administrator has not enabled Dataverse
             search, then you will see the Search button and the Advanced Find button
                on the command bar. Select the Advanced Find button, to see the list of
             tables to choose from.
         2. Select a table and choose Continue to access the table. The tables in the filter must
          meet the following requirements:
             Part of the model-driven app
             Enabled for Unified Interface
             Valid for advanced find
         3. You will be navigated to the table's grid page, with the default view for the table
          selected and the rows displayed in a read-only grid. The Edit filters panel will be
          opened, so you can filter the data on that table. For more information, see create
          and manage personal views for that table.
       For more information on creating and managing system views, see Create and edit
       public or system views.
       Create, edit, or save a view using legacy
       advanced find
       If your administrator has not enabled the modern advanced find experience, you can
       find the rows you want by using the legacy Advanced Find search option. You can also
       use Advanced Find to prepare data for export to Office Excel so that you analyze,
       summarize, or aggregate data, or create PivotTables to view your data from different
       perspectives.
         ７ Note
              To use the modern advanced find in model-driven apps, see Create and manage
              personal views on a grid page .
               1. On the command bar, select Advanced Find button    .
               2. Specify what to search for.
                 a. In the Look for list, select a row type.
                 b. Choose Select to define search criteria: column (for example, Account Name or
                    City), the query relational operator (part of an expression such as "is equal to" or
                    "contains" that defines how a specified column should be compared with a
                    value.), and the values to locate (for example, "Seattle" or "Email").
                    You can select columns from the current row type, or from related rows. For
                    example, an account might have many related contact rows.
                    At the bottom of the Select list, the Related section shows related row types.
                    For example, most row types have a related Notes row type. To select columns
                    from a related row type, select column and a new Select link appears.
               3. Specify the columns to include in the search results.
                 a. Select Edit Columns, and then select Add Columns.
                 b. Select the row type that includes the columns you want to add.
                  c. Select the columns you want to add, and then select OK.
               4. Specify the sort order.
                 a. Select Edit Columns.
                 b. Select Configure Sorting.
                  c. Specify the column to sort on, specify the sort order, and then select OK.
                 d. Select OK.
               5. Select Results.
            To save the results, select Save As and name the personalized view.
            Share a personal view
            Before you can share a personal view, it must be saved.
       1. On the command bar, select the Advanced Find button.
       2. On the Advanced Find tab, select Saved Views.
       3. From the list of saved views, select a view and then select Share.
       4. In the Share saved view screen, select Add User/Team.
       5. Use the look up to find the users or team that you want to share the view with.
