       6. When you find the user or team, select their name and then choose Select and
        then Add.
       7. Select each user’s permission and then select Share.
              Delete a personal view
                 1. On the command bar, select the Advanced Find button.
                 2. On the Advanced Find tab, select Saved Views.
                 3. From the list of saved views, select the view that you want to delete and then
                    select Delete Saved View.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
     How to import data
     10/22/2025
     Import data stored somewhere else into your model-driven app using the import feature in
     Power Apps.
     Every table requires columns that must exist in your input file. You should download an Excel
     template, add your data, and then import the file to your app. The template saves time and
     effort. Don't add or modify columns in the template to avoid issues during the import.
     Before you import a file, make sure the column headings match the column names in your app.
     During the import process, the system tries to map the column names from your input file to
     the column names in the app. If they don't match, then you have to manually map the fields or
     you might run into issues during the import process.
     If you're an advanced user and know the required columns for a given Dataverse table, define
     your own Excel, CSV, or XML source file and then follow the steps in this article on how to
     import data to your app. These file formats are supported:
        Excel workbook (.xlsx)
        Comma-separated values (.csv)
        XML Spreadsheet 2003 (.xml)
     The maximum file size allowed for .zip files is 32 MB. For the other file formats, the maximum
     file size allowed is 8 MB.
     Download an Excel template
     To avoid mapping issues, you should use an Excel template that you can download from your
     app. Once the template is downloaded, add your data and then import the file back to your
     app. Remember don't add or modify columns in the template to avoid issues during the import
     process.
      1. Open your app and from the left nav select a table.
      2. On the command bar, select Excel Templates > Download Template.
      3. Select the table type and view to download or select Edit Columns and choose the rows
        to include in the template.
      4. Select Download.
     Import your data
     Use the template that you downloaded in the previous step (modified with your data) and
     import the file to your app.
      1. Open an app and from the left nav select a table.
      2. On the command bar, select the file type to import from:
          Import from Excel: Select Import from Excel if you're using an Excel template.
          Import from CSV
          Import from XML
      3. Select Choose File and browse to the folder where the file is saved. Select the file, select
       Open, and then select Next.
         Tip
        You can only import one file at a time. To bring in more files, run the wizard again.
      4. Select whether to Allow Duplicates or not. More information, see Set up duplicate
       detection rules to keep your data clean.
      5. For CSV and XML files (skip this step if you're importing an Excel file):
         For a CSV file: Select the drop-down list and select the data delimiter and field
         delimiter that's used for the CSV file.
         For CSV or XML file: If you have an alternate key defined, select it from the alternate
         Key drop-down list. The alternate key is used to uniquely identify and update rows
         during import. More information: Define alternate keys to reference rows.
      6. Select Review Mapping and verify the columns (fields) are mapped correctly. If everything
       looks good, select Finish Import.
      7. Select Track Progress to see the progress of the import.
     Review mapping
     When you import a file, it's important to review the column headings and verify that they
     match the columns (fields) in your app.
    Legend:
      1. Primary Fields: Shows all the required columns for the table that must be mapped for the
       data to be imported successfully. If the column headings of your source file match the
       column display names, these columns are automatically mapped.
      2. Mapped columns: Correctly mapped columns are shown with a green check mark.
      3. Optional Fields: These are optional column headings in your source file. If the column
       headings match the column display names, the columns are automatically selected in the
       corresponding drop-down lists.
      4. Unmatched columns: If the column headings don't match, the unmapped columns are
       shown with a red exclamation point. To map the column correctly, select a column to map
       to the unmapped column heading of your file.
      5. Ignore (For Optional Fields only): Choose Ignore from the drop-down list. Data from
       ignored columns aren't imported into your app.
    Option set
    If any column in your source file includes a fixed set of values, you must map the column to a
    column of type Option Set. A column of this type has values such as Yes and No or Low and
    High.
    To do this, select the   button next to the option set column, select the values, and then select
    OK.
    The option values drop-down list combines the values available in the incoming file with those
    already in your app. For example:
       Values in import file: Low, High
       Values already in your app: Cold, Warm, Hot
       Resulting target values: Cold, Warm, Hot, Low, High
    After import, the import wizard will add all mapped values in your app, but will drop
    unmapped values from the import file that aren't yet in your app. For example, you could map
    the "Low" source value to the "Cold" target value, but map the "High" source value to the (new)
    "High" target value. Based on these mappings, the import wizard creates "High" as a target
     value in your app. It doesn't create "Low" as a target value in your app because you didn't map
     any source to this target value.
       ７ Note
       You can map a column in your source file to a "Two Options" or "Multiselect Option Set"
       column. When mapping to a "Multiselect Option Set," if your source file includes values
       not available in your app, new values may be created in Dataverse if the import mapping
       is set to NotMapped. If the mapping is set to Ignore, the record can be successfully
       imported. And, for "Multi-Select Option Set" fields, the values are not imported, and no
       new values are created in the target environment.
     Map lookup columns
     If some data in your source file references other existing rows in your app, you must map the
     column in the source file to a lookup column in your app.
     For example, you might want to import a file named Leads.csv, which contains customer rows.
     The Customer column in Leads.csv contains the associated account or contact data. To map
     this, select the Lookup Reference button next to the lookup column. The Lookup Reference
     section opens and lists the tables related to the current table.
     For each table, select the columns to search during import to retain the relationships between
     the rows, and then select OK.
     Save mapping settings
      To save the mapping settings for next time, enter a name in the Name your data map box. This
      way, the next time you import a similar set of data, you'll be able to use the same mapping.
      Open the import log
      After you initiate an import, you can monitor the status of the import job and view results in
      the import log.
      In the last step of the import wizard, select Track Progress to view the progress of the import
      job.
      If you missed this step, append the following code to your app URL:
  