Microsoft Power Apps documentation
Discover how to make the most of Power Apps with online training courses, docs, and videos
covering product capabilities and how-to articles. Learn how to quickly build low-code apps that
modernize processes and solve tough business challenges in your organization using Power Apps.

GET STARTED

W H AT ' S N E W

TRAINING

HOW-TO GUIDE

What is Power Apps?

What's new in Power Apps?

Power Apps training

Troubleshoot

Create and design
Try/Buy

Create apps

AI copilot capabilities

Try Power Apps

Choose an app type

Get started with AI copilot

Buy Power Apps

Use the Plan designer

Use the Plan designer

Create a canvas app

Overview of the new
experience (preview)

Create a model-driven app
Create a code app

Build apps through
conversation
Build pages with generative
pages
Add a Copilot control to a
canvas app (preview)

Create and manage
data
What is Microsoft Dataverse?

Use solutions
What are solutions?

Integrate with other
products
Visualize data with Power BI

Create and use tables and
metadata
Apply business logic
Create and use dataflows

Implement healthy application
lifecycle management (ALM)
using solutions

Get real-time insights with
Azure Synapse Link
Add and use apps in Teams

Deploy solutions using
pipelines

Best practices guidance
Power Apps coding guidelines
Collaborate and co-develop
apps

Administer and extend
Administer Power Apps
Use the Power Platform admin
center
Understand Power Apps
licensing
Understand security and
governance

Extend the data
platform

Extend model-driven
apps

Dataverse developer guide

Model-driven apps developer
guide

Work with data using code
Apply business logic using
code
Create client applications

Apply business logic using
client scripting
Use code components in
model-driven apps

Extend canvas apps
Canvas apps developer guide
Create and use custom
connectors
Develop offline-capable canvas
apps
Create and use canvas
components

Use
Use apps on mobile
devices

Use apps in web
browsers

Use apps in Teams

Install and use Power Apps
mobile

Understand basic navigation

Embed a canvas app as a
personal app

Search records

Embed a canvas app as a tab

Use Power Apps for Windows

View reports

Troubleshoot issues

Embed a model-driven app as
a tab
Embed a model-driven app as
a personal app

Related content
Power Platform

Power Automate

Power BI

One-stop learning resource for
Power Platform applications
and features, with admin,
developer, and guidance…

Create automated workflows
between your favorite apps
and services to synchronize
files, get notifications, collect…

Turn your unrelated sources of
data into coherent, visually
immersive, and interactive
insights.

Power Pages

Dynamics 365

Microsoft Azure

Design, host, and administer
secure, modern, and low-code
business websites.

Empower your organization
with the next generation of
CRM and ERP applications.

Learn how this ever-expanding
set of cloud computing
services can help your
organization meet its busines…

What is Power Apps?
Power Apps is a suite of apps, services, and connectors, as well as a data platform, that
provides a rapid development environment to build custom apps for your business needs. With
Power Apps, you can quickly build custom business apps that connect to your data stored
either in the underlying data platform (Microsoft Dataverse) or in many online and on-premises
data sources (such as SharePoint, Microsoft 365, Dynamics 365, SQL Server, and so on).

Apps built with Power Apps provide rich business logic and workflow capabilities to transform
your manual business operations into digital, automated processes. What's more, apps built
with Power Apps have a responsive design and can run seamlessly in browser and on mobile
devices (phone or tablet). Power Apps "democratizes" the business-app-building experience by
enabling users to create feature-rich, custom business apps without writing code.
Power Apps also provides an extensible platform that lets pro developers programmatically
interact with data and metadata, apply business logic, create custom connectors, and integrate
with external data.
Power Apps and Microsoft Copilot let you describe the app you want and AI designs it. Make
edits, add automation, and write code—all with Copilot in Power Apps.
For more information:
Try Power Apps for free
Watch videos on the Power Apps channel

on YouTube

Power Apps for app makers and creators
７ Note

Try the new Power Apps experience—an AI-native solution designed to simplify app
creation. Effortlessly automate workflows, connect data sources, and speed up
development, all without needing advanced coding skills. For more information, see
Overview of the New Power Apps experience (preview).
With Power Apps, you can create two types of apps: canvas and model-driven. For more
information, see Overview of creating apps in Power Apps.
To create an app, start with make.powerapps.com

.

Plans in Power Apps is a copilot-first development tool that lets you quickly create
comprehensive business solutions. Describe your business use case in natural language
and add relevant images, like business process flows or screenshots of legacy apps. For
more information, see Overview of plans.
Power Apps Studio is the app designer you use to build canvas apps. The app designer
makes creating apps feel more like building a slide deck in Microsoft PowerPoint. For
more information, see Generate an app from data.
App designer for model-driven apps lets you define the sitemap and add components to
build a model-driven app. For more information, see Design model-driven apps using
app designer.
Ready to convert your ideas into an app? Start here: Planning a Power Apps project.

Power Apps for app users
Run apps that you created, or that someone else created and shared with you, in a browser or
on mobile devices (phone or tablet). For more information, see:
Find and run apps
Run apps on Power Apps mobile

Power Apps for admins
Power Apps administrators can use the Power Platform admin center
(admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com

) to create and manage environments, view Dataverse

analytics, and get real-time, self-help recommendations and support for Power Apps and
Power Automate. For more information, see Administer Power Platform.

Power Apps for developers

Developers are app makers who write code to extend business app creation and customization.
Use code to create data and metadata, apply server-side logic with Azure functions, plug-ins,
and workflow extensions, apply client-side logic with JavaScript, integrate with external data by
using virtual tables and webhooks, build custom connectors, and embed apps into your
website experiences to create integrated solutions. For more information, see:
Dataverse developer
Model-driven apps developer
Canvas apps developer

Power Apps and Dynamics 365
Dynamics 365 apps (such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365 Customer Service, and
Dynamics 365 Marketing) also use the underlying Dataverse platform that Power Apps uses to
store and secure data. This feature enables you to build apps by using Power Apps and
Dataverse directly against your core business data already used within Dynamics 365, without
the need for integration. For more information, see Dynamics 365 and Dataverse.

Try Power Apps for free
You can build Power Apps for free. Sign in to Power Apps

. For more information, see Sign in

to Power Apps for the first time. Initially, you have access to the default environment. You can
build in your own developer environment with Dataverse by signing up for the Power Apps
Developer Plan

. For more information, see About the Power Apps Developer Plan.

You need a license to play the apps you make with Power Apps. You can play Power Apps for
free by signing up for a 30-day trial.

Request a Power Apps license
If you're a Power Apps user and want to run apps, request a Power Apps license while running
the app. For more information, see Request a Power Apps license.

Purchase Power Apps
To purchase Power Apps, go to Purchase Power Apps for detailed information.

Power Apps US Government plans

Power Apps US Government offers several plans designed for US government organizations to
address the unique and evolving requirements of the United States public sector. The Power
Apps GCC environment complies with federal requirements for cloud services, including
FedRAMP High, DoD DISA IL2, and requirements for criminal justice systems (CJI data types).
For more information, see Power Apps US Government.

Last updated on 11/18/2025

Explore Power Apps for free for 30 days
Get instant access to all Power Apps capabilities with a free 30-day trial. Whether you're new to
Power Apps or want to explore premium features, this trial unlocks everything you need to
build powerful business applications.
If you don't have a license for Power Apps, the trial plan gives temporary access to these
activities:
Extend the capabilities of Office 365 (SharePoint Online, Teams, Excel, and more)
Create and run canvas apps that connect to Microsoft Dataverse and over 200 other data
sources, including premium connectors and on-premises data.
Create and run model-driven apps
Automate workflows with Power Automate
Create and manage environments and Dataverse databases
If you have a Power Apps license or a license through Office 365, you already have access to
some of these features. However, the trial license temporarily expands your access to include
all features in the previous list. Learn what capabilities each type of license offers on the pricing
page

.

７ Note
If you're an administrator, see Purchase Power Apps for your organization or Power
Apps in your organization Q&A.
Starting January 2020, self-service purchase, subscription, and license management
capabilities for Power Platform products (Power BI, Power Apps, and Power
Automate) are available for commercial cloud customers in the United States. For
more information, including steps to enable or disable self-service purchasing in
your organization, see the Self-service purchase FAQ.

Need an account?
If you don't have a work or school account, create a free account with Microsoft Entra and
become a low-code developer with Power Apps. To keep building apps after the trial period,
opt in to the free Power Apps Developer Plan

.

Ready to get started?
1. Start your free trial now →

- Go to PowerApps.com and select Start free.

2. Enter your email. If your email isn't a work or school account, you're prompted to create a
free Microsoft Entra account by using this sign-up experience

.

If you want to evaluate Power Apps integrations with Microsoft 365, sign up for an Office 365
trial

account.

７ Note
If you don't have an organization account or aren't part of a tenant or organization
account, you can establish a developer's account through the Microsoft Developer
Program.

Identify your current license
Compare license options: Learn what capabilities each type of license offers on the pricing
page

to choose the best plan for your needs.

1. Sign in to Power Apps

using your work or school credentials.

） Important
You can't sign in by using a personal email address, such as one that ends in
outlook.com, hotmail.com, or gmail.com. For more information, see What email
address can I use? later in this article.
2. Select the gear icon in the upper-right corner, and then select Plan(s).

Upgrade an existing license
To start a free 30-day trial of Power Apps per user plan from an existing license, sign in to
Power Apps

. Then, try any feature that requires a premium Power Apps license. For example,

select the gear icon near the upper-right corner, select Admin center, and select New

environment near the upper-right corner. Follow the prompts to complete the sign-up
process.

Get a license from scratch
Whether or not you have a license for Power Apps, start a free 30-day trial per user plan by
following these steps:
1. Open the Power Apps site

, and then select Try free.

If you're using a phone, select the menu in the top-right corner, and then select Try free.
2. In the middle of the screen, select Pricing, and then select Start free trial.
3. In the dialog box, enter your work or school email address, and then select Submit.
） Important
For more information, see What email address can I use? later in this article.
4. If a dialog box indicates that Power Apps recognizes your organizational credentials,
follow the prompts to finish signing in.

Otherwise, follow the prompts to check your email, verify your email address, provide
more information if necessary, and then select Start.
You see the following message if your admin disables free trials.

７ Note
For more information, including the steps to enable or disable trial licenses in your
organization, see Block trial licenses commands.

FAQ
What email address can I use?
You can use a work or school email address, backed by Microsoft Entra ID, to sign up for a trial
license. If you use a different kind of address, you might experience one of the symptoms in
this table.
ﾉ

Expand table

Symptom / error message

Cause and workaround

Personal email addresses (for example,
@gmail.com email address)

Power Apps doesn't support email addresses provided by
consumer email services or telecommunications providers.

You receive a message like the following
during signup:

To complete signup, try again using an email address
assigned by your work or school.

You entered a personal email address:
Please enter your work email address so
we can securely store your company's
data.

or
That looks like a personal email
address. Enter your work address so we
can connect you with others in your

Symptom / error message

Cause and workaround

company. And don’t worry. We won’t share
your address with anyone.

.gov or .mil addresses

Power Apps doesn't support .gov or .mil addresses at this
time.

You receive a message like the following
during signup:
Power Apps unavailable: Power Apps is
not available for users with .gov or
.mil email addresses at this time. Use
another work email address or check back
later.

or
We can't finish signing you up. It looks
like Microsoft Power Apps isn't
currently available for your work or
school.

Email address is not an Office 365 ID

Your organization signs in to Office 365 and other Microsoft
services with IDs other than email addresses. For example,

You receive a message like the following
during signup:

your email address might be Nancy.Smith@contoso.com,
but your ID is nancys@contoso.com.

We can't find you at contoso.com. Do you
Try signing in with that, and if it

To complete signup, use the ID that your organization has
assigned to you for signing in to Office 365 or other
Microsoft services. If you don't know what this is, contact

doesn't work, contact your IT

your IT administrator.

use a different ID at work or school?

department.

Does the cloud environment I use Power Apps in allow the
use of trial licenses?
Power Apps trial licenses are available only in the Azure commercial cloud. They aren't available
in Azure Government or Microsoft Azure China clouds.

What happens when my trial expires?
You're prompted to request an extension of the trial or purchase a plan 30 days after the trial
starts. You can extend the trial two more times (30 days each)—with a maximum trial period of
90 days. You can find details about all plans on the pricing page

.

If you don't extend the trial or purchase a plan but you still have another kind of license, you
can use all the features of Power Apps that your other license provides. Any data in Dataverse
remains unchanged, and any app or flow that uses Dataverse continues to run if your license
supports them. If you try to use premium Power Apps features but your existing license doesn't
support them (for example, modify a schema or entities in Dataverse), you are prompted to
purchase a plan.

More questions?
Visit the Power Apps community

Last updated on 01/13/2026

.

Request a Power Apps license for
yourself
Article • 05/08/2023

You can request a Power Apps license from your admin directly using Power Apps.

Request a license
If you don't have a license and are trying to open apps made with Power Apps, you'll see
the options in the following image. Select Request license to submit a license request to
your admin.
７ Note
The options in the following image may differ depending on whether you've
exhausted any Power Apps trials.

Request a license through a trial
If you're already in an active Power Apps trial, you can request a license by selecting
Request license near the top of the page.

Wait for a response from your admin
After you request a license, you'll see a banner at the top of the page that confirms that
your request was sent, and that it might take a few days for your admin to respond to
the request.
If you're using a Power Apps trial, you can continue to use the trial while you wait for
your request to be approved.
After your admin has reviewed your request, you'll receive an email notification
indicating whether the request was approved.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Request Power Apps licenses for your
app users
Article • 06/30/2023

As a Power Apps maker, you can create an app that requires a license for use. For
example, if you create an app with premium components or connectors, users must
have an appropriate Power Apps license to use it.
When you share a canvas app or model-driven app that contains premium components,
select Request licenses. The request is submitted to your admin for approval. You can't
request licenses for security groups or distribution lists.

After your admin has reviewed your request, you'll receive an email notification
indicating whether the request was approved or denied.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Overview of creating apps in Power Apps
Power Apps is a high-productivity development platform for business apps. It has these major
components:
Plans
Copilot
Canvas apps
Model-driven apps
Microsoft Dataverse
Let's learn more about each of these components.
７ Note
Try the new Power Apps experience—an AI-native solution designed to simplify app
creation. Effortlessly automate workflows, connect data sources, and speed up development,
all without needing advanced coding skills. For more information, see Overview of the New
Power Apps experience (preview)

Plans
Plans in Power Apps is a copilot-first development tool that helps you rapidly build end-to-end
business solutions. Simply describe your business scenario in natural language and include
relevant visuals, such as process flows or screenshots of existing systems. Plans then generates a
complete Power Platform solution tailored to your requirements, including Microsoft Dataverse
tables, canvas apps, model-driven apps, Power Pages sites, Power Automate flows, and Copilot
Studio agents.

Create apps using Copilot
Copilot in Power Apps lets you to quickly create apps by simply describing your business
requirements in natural language. Copilot automatically generates both the app and its data
model—no coding needed. Users can interact with your app using everyday language, making
the experience intuitive and engaging. For more information, see Copilot and AI features in
Power Apps

Canvas apps
Canvas apps start with your user experience. You craft a highly tailored interface with the power
of a blank canvas and connect it to your choice of more than 200 data sources. You can build
canvas apps for web, mobile, and tablet applications.
Canvas apps give you the flexibility to arrange the user experience and interface the way you
want it. Let your creativity and business sense guide how you want your apps to look and feel.
You can start to build your app from Microsoft tools where your data lives, such as:
From a SharePoint list
From a Power BI dashboard
Creating a canvas app is easy. With Power Apps, you can find or create your app in several ways:
From a Dataverse source
From data in a SharePoint List
From Excel data
From a blank canvas
Via Marketplace
In addition to creating apps in Power Apps, you can also create apps directly within Microsoft
Teams by using Power Apps. For more information, see Create apps in Microsoft Teams by using
Power Apps.

Model-driven apps
Model-driven apps start with your data model. You build up from the shape of your core business
data and processes in the Dataverse to model forms, views, and other components. Model-driven
apps automatically generate a great UI that's responsive across devices.
When you create a model-driven app, you can use all the power of the Dataverse to rapidly
configure your forms, business rules, and process flows. You create a model-driven app from the
Power Apps site.
As part of the custom page public preview, you can add the new page type based on canvas into
a new or existing model-driven app. This addition brings the power and flexibility of a canvas
experience within the model-driven app. Custom pages allow
Full control over page layout

Out of box controls and custom components
Power Apps connectors
Low-code authoring
Getting started with model-driven apps is simple. You can begin with these topics:
Create an app
Create and design forms
Create or edit views
Create or edit a system chart
Create or edit dashboards
Add security
Add business logic
Converging model and canvas using custom page (preview)

Dataverse
Dataverse is the data platform that comes with Power Apps and allows you to store and model
business data. It's the platform on which Dynamics 365 apps (such as Dynamics 365 Sales,
Customer Service, Field Service, Marketing, and Project Service Automation) are built. If you're a
Dynamics 365 customer, your data is already in Dataverse.
Dataverse allows you to securely store and manage data within a set of standard and custom
tables. You can add columns to those tables when you need them.
Start working with Dataverse by reading these topics:
Create a custom table
Manage columns
Create custom choices
Create a business rule

Planning a Power Apps app or project
It's easy to begin building your first app. Simply sign in to Power Apps

. For more information,

see Sign in to Power Apps for the first time. If you're interested in exploring even more
functionality, such as creating environments, we have a 30-day trial or Developer Plan.
If you're new to Power Apps and want to learn about how to convert your ideas into a fully
working solution, start with Planning a Power Apps project.

Last updated on 11/18/2025

Sign in to Power Apps
Sign in to Power Apps at https://make.powerapps.com

to create, edit, or play an app.

This article shows you how to access Power Apps for the first time, choose the right
environment, and navigate different authentication options including Azure B2B and Microsoft
Account sign-in.
To create canvas apps, you need the environment maker predefined security role.
If you don't have a work or school account, you can sign up for a trial account. For information,
see Explore Power Apps for free for 30 days.
What you'll learn:
How to choose the right environment for your work
Different sign-in options including Azure B2B and Microsoft Account
How to access environments and create your first app
For more information about the Power Apps

home page, see Get started with Power Apps.

Choose an environment
When you create an app, a flow, a data connection, or a table in Microsoft Dataverse, most
work in Power Apps happens in a specific environment. Environments set boundaries between
types of work. For example, an organization can use separate environments for different
departments. Many organizations use environments to separate apps in development from
those ready for use. You might have access to multiple environments or just one. If you have
the right permissions, you can create your own environment.
To check which environment you're in, find the environment switcher near the right side of the
header.

With the environment selector, environments are grouped into two types: Build apps with
Dataverse and Other environments. Select Filter to filter the list of environments by your role,
data platform (Dataverse or none), and environment type, like production or sandbox.



Environments where you have system administrator or system customizer security role
membership appear under Build apps with Dataverse. The Other environments list shows
environments where you have only environment maker or editing privileges to at least one
canvas app in the environment.
 Tip
Hover over an environment in the list to see its details.

Filter environments by role
ﾉ

Expand table

Filter role

Power Platform role or description

Admin

System administrator
Environment admin

Maker with data

System administrator

access

System customizer

Maker without full
data access

Environment maker (with or without Dataverse)

Shared app

User without a maker-level security role assigned but with edit permission to at

contributor

least one canvas app in the environment

） Important
To see the environment list in the environment switcher in Power Apps, you need the
Environment Maker, System Customizer, or System Administrator security role in the
environment. For information about predefined security roles, see Predefined
security roles in the Microsoft Power Platform admin guide.
Make sure you're in the right environment before you create an app, a flow, or a
similar component. You can't easily move components from one environment to
another.

７ Note
Every member in an organization can use the default environment. Like any
environment, users can see apps where they have enough privileges to use an app.
All users with the Environment Maker security role in an environment can see all
model-driven apps in that environment, including the default environment. For more
information, see Model-driven app privileges to view and access apps.
When you create an app in one environment, you can't see it from another
environment. People who want to run your app need access to the environment
where you created it.
For more information about environments, see Environments overview.

Sign in by using Azure B2B collaboration

７ Note
A resource tenant is the Microsoft Entra tenant where an app is expected to exist,
and where the user is expected to create and edit the app. For Azure B2B makers,
this tenant is different from the tenant their account resides.
A home tenant is where the user's account resides and authenticates against.
To create and edit apps in a resource tenant, an admin must follow these steps to
give Azure B2B users the prerequisite privileges to build apps.
When a user signs into Power Apps

, they sign into their home tenant - the Microsoft Entra

tenant where their credentials are provisioned. After signing in, the user can change the
directory they intend to build apps in by selecting the Switch directory link as shown here:

The switch directory link opens Power Apps settings with a Directories tab that lists all the
Microsoft Entra tenants where the user is a member or an Azure B2B guest. Selecting Switch
signs out of the current tenant and then signs into the selected tenant in Power Apps

.

Frequently asked questions
As an Azure B2B maker, why can't I share apps?
The Power Apps sharing experience requires users to have permissions in the tenant when the
Azure Microsoft Entra ID external collaboration settings lets guest user access to "(most
inclusive)". Azure B2B makers without enough privileges see the following error dialog when
sharing.

Can I work in Power Apps in both my home tenant and a resource
tenant?
Yes, but only in separate browser sessions. For example, Microsoft Edge can be open in its
standard mode, and you can start a separate session in a new InPrivate window.
If you open multiple tabs in the same browser session, you can only access resources in
the most recently signed-in tenant.

Can I sign in to Power Apps, in a resource tenant with GDAP?
No, https://make.powerapps.com

doesn't recognize Granular delegated admin privileges

(GDAP), but the Power Platform admin center does.

Sign in by using Microsoft Account (preview)

Anyone can build Power Apps, even if they don't have a work or school account. Sign up for a
Dynamics 365 Sales trial by using a Microsoft Account
to Power Apps

and then use that account to sign in

.

During the 30-day trial period, you can make and play with as many apps as you like. You can
also build apps with Dataverse or other premium connectors. However, if you plan to run these
apps beyond the trial period or share them with others, you need to create a (free) Microsoft
Entra account.
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers
can get early access and provide feedback.

Where can I get a license with Power Apps use rights for my
Microsoft Account?
The Dynamics 365 Sales free trial includes Power Apps use rights, along with other Dynamics
and Power Platform use rights. You can sign up here: Dynamics 365 free trial

.

７ Note
Not all Power Apps free licenses support Microsoft Account sign-up. The list of free
licenses that allow free sign-up is expected to grow over time.

How do I create model-driven apps and use Dataverse?
Select or create an environment with Dataverse. You can create Developer environments with
Dataverse for free.
1. Sign in to Power Apps

.

2. Select the environment picker.
3. In the Need your own environment? prompt, select Try it now to create an environment
with Dataverse.

How do I access Power Platform admin center?
Power Platform admin center (https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com

) doesn't support

Microsoft Account sign-in. However, your Microsoft Account is associated with a Microsoft
Entra tenant and you can provision a Microsoft Entra based identity to use in the Power
Platform admin center.
1. Follow the steps under How do I create a Microsoft Entra identity with the same
administrative privileges as my Microsoft Account?
2. Using the newly created Microsoft Entra identity, sign in to
https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com

.

How do I create a Microsoft Entra identity with the same
administrative privileges as my Microsoft Account?
1. Sign in to https://portal.azure.com

.

2. Search for Microsoft Entra ID.
3. Add a new user.
4. Associate or add an Azure subscription to your Microsoft Entra tenant. For administrative
purposes, assign the same admin role as your Microsoft Account has in Microsoft Entra
ID, such as Power Platform or Dynamics 365 admin.

The free license assigned to my Microsoft Account expired,
how can I access Power Apps?

If your Microsoft Account is associated with a Microsoft Entra tenant, you can sign in to Power
Apps

and edit your apps. However, without an active license you can't play the apps.

Today, Microsoft accounts are bound to limited trial periods. You can't sign up for the same
free license twice with the same account. Also, Microsoft accounts can't purchase Power Apps
plans .
You might proceed with building and running apps by creating a Microsoft Entra identity in the
same Microsoft Entra tenant your Microsoft Account is associated with and sign up for a Power
Apps Developer plan

by using that identity. With your Microsoft Account, you need to share

your apps with your Microsoft Entra identity to proceed with editing and playing them.
To create a Microsoft Entra identity with administrative rights, follow the steps under “How do I
create a Microsoft Entra identity with the same administrative privileges as my Microsoft
Account?”.

Can I use my Microsoft Account with the Power Platform
PowerShell cmdlets?
No. In the meantime, follow the steps described in the previous questions. Add a new
Microsoft Entra identity to the Microsoft Entra tenant associated with your Microsoft Account
to use the Power Platform PowerShell cmdlets.

Can I share my apps with other users?
Yes, but you need to add users to the Microsoft Entra tenant associated with your Microsoft
Account, assign a license to these users, and then share your app with these users. As an
admin, you can assign free licenses to users but these licenses expire.
1. To create a Microsoft Entra identity with administrative rights, follow the steps under How
do I create a Microsoft Entra identity with the same administrative privileges as my
Microsoft Account?.
2. Add each user you want to share an app with to Microsoft Entra ID.
a. Sign in to https://portal.azure.com

.

b. Search for Microsoft Entra ID.
c. Add a new user or Add a guest user. You can add users that have either a Microsoft
Account or Microsoft Entra identity.
3. With your Microsoft Entra admin identity, either purchase Power Apps plans

. As an

admin, you receive 25 Power Apps per user trials. All of these trials expire.
4. With your Microsoft Entra admin identity, assign licenses to the users you added to your
Microsoft Entra tenant.
5. Sign in to Power Apps

to proceed with sharing your apps to users.

Can I run my apps in Power Apps mobile?
Yes. You must launch an app from an app link. Without launching an app directly, Power Apps
mobile doesn't support Microsoft Account sign in out of the context of launching an app.
You can get the app link for an app by going to Power Apps
Details > See the Web link property.

Next steps
Build an app
What is Microsoft Dataverse?

Last updated on 01/21/2026

> Apps > (select an app) >

Get started with Power Apps
ﾃ

Summarize this article for me

Get started with Power Apps to build your first app quickly and efficiently. The Power Apps
home page is your starting point for creating apps, managing existing ones, and accessing
powerful features that streamline your workflow.
What you'll accomplish: By the end of this article, you'll learn how to navigate the interface,
create your first app, and access Copilot AI features to accelerate development.
Select the appropriate tab in the following section to learn more.



Legend:
1. Left navigation pane
2. Search
3. Environment information and settings
4. Build apps
5. View and edit plans
6. View and edit apps
７ Note
Try the new Power Apps experience—an AI-native solution designed to simplify app
creation. Effortlessly automate workflows, connect data sources, and speed up

development, all without needing advanced coding skills. For more information, see
Overview of the New Power Apps experience (preview).

Quick start options
New to Power Apps? Start with our 5-minute canvas app tutorial
Have existing data? Create an app from SharePoint or Excel
Need help choosing? Review which app type is right for you

1 – Left navigation pane
Your main control center. When you sign in to the Power Apps home page

, the left

navigation pane gives you quick access to everything you need. Here's what each option does:



Legend:
1. Home: Takes you to the Power Apps home page.
2. Create: Create apps such as canvas apps, model-driven apps, chatbots, and AI models.
3. Learn: The learn hub lets you explore documents, training material, get help from the
Power Apps community, and other resources that help you to create and build Power
Apps.
4. Plans: View and edit your plans. For more information, see Overview of Plan designer.
5. Apps: If you created an app or someone else created one and shared it with you, you can
play or edit it. You can also filter the list of apps based on criteria such as whether you
opened it recently.
6. AI hub: Create and use AI models that optimize your business processes. For more
information, see Overview of AI Builder.
7. Your most used pages such as Tables, Connections, Flows: When you first sign in, the
top three pages that you use most are pinned to the left navigation pane. Use the More
option to unpin any of these pages and pin something else.
8. More: Pin your most used items to the left navigation such as tables, flows, and more.
9. Power Platform: Explore other Power Platform products or service.

Pin and unpin
Pin your most used pages in the navigation pane so you can quickly access features that you
use frequently. Links to other pages are available through the More link. When you pin an item,
it appears in the middle section above More.
When you sign in, the system automatically pins your most and recently used pages on the left
navigation pane. However, you can pin and unpin pages and customize it to your preference.
To pin or unpin a page from the left navigation pane, select More, and then select the
or

unpin button.

pin

You can also unpin an item by selecting the more button and then select Unpin.

Discover all
To see all your Power Apps, from the left navigation pane, select More > Discover all. To keep
it pinned, select the

pin button.

Move up or move down
When you have a few pages pinned in the navigation pane, you can start moving them up or
down.
To move a page up or down, select the more button next to the page that you want to move,
and then select Move up or Move down.

Power Platform
From the left navigation pane, select Power Platform to access Power Platform services such as
Power Platform Admin Center, Power BI, and Power Automate.

2 – Search
Find anything fast. The search bar helps you:
Locate your apps by typing any part of the name
Discover new app templates
Access help documentation
Quick tip: Start typing in the search bar, and then select the banner icon next to your app to
open or edit it.

3 – Environment information and settings
View your environment information and settings.

Choose an environment
For best results, start by ensuring that the home page is set to the right environment. For more
information, see Choose an environment.

Manage environments by using Power Platform admin center.

Notifications
Select the bell icon to see notifications. The notification center stores notifications until you
dismiss them or when they expire.

Settings
Select the gear icon to perform tasks such as connecting to data sources, identify your Power
Apps licenses, and open the page where you can perform administrative tasks.
Admin center: Opens another window and goes to the Power Platform admin center.
Plans(s): View your licenses. For more information, see Licensing overview.
Advanced settings: Manage your admin settings. For more information, see Manage
Microsoft Dataverse settings.
Session details: View your Power Apps session details such as session ID, tenant ID,
environment ID, and more.

Developer resources: Access developer resources.
Power Apps settings: View or update your language and time settings, notifications, or
access directories.
Themes: From the list of themes, select a theme for your organization.
Password: Change your password.
Contact preferences: Update your contact information.

Help
In the header, select the question mark icon to find more information about Power Apps.

You find links to documentation, Power Apps training on Microsoft Learn, the Power Apps
Community where you can share information with users in other organizations, and the Power
Apps blog where the newest features are announced.

4 – Build apps
Ready to build your first app? Choose the option that best fits your needs:
Start with a design →: Pick a layout or start with blank canvas app and design your app.
Start with data →: Create a new table in Dataverse, or connect to an existing datasource,
such as Dataverse, SharePoint, Excel, SQL, or upload a file.
Start with a plan →: Use plans to describe your business problem and generate apps,
tables, and more.
You can also create app using the Create menu on the left navigation pane. Review the
following articles, to learn more about creating apps:
Create a blank canvas app from scratch.
Create a canvas app using Microsoft Dataverse
create a canvas app based on Excel data.
Create a canvas app with data from a list
７ Note
If you're trying to create an app by using Dataverse but the option is unavailable,
review the permissions table in this article.

Permissions for Dataverse
Can't create a Dataverse app? This table shows what happens based on your permissions and
helps you understand your next steps.
ﾉ

Expand table

Maker has access to
a developer

Maker has permission
to create a developer

Maker has access to
another Dataverse

environment

environment

environment with required
permissions

Yes

n/a

n/a

Action

Switch to the developer
environment that appears
first in the alphabetical list

No

Yes

n/a

Create a developer
environment

No

No

Yes

Switch to another
environment using the
environment picker

No

No

No

Contact your admin

5 - View and edit plans
Select a plan to view and edit a plan. You can also, use the Plans menu in the left navigation
pane to access your plans.

6 – View and edit apps
Manage your apps effectively:
Access your apps: Use the Apps menu in the left navigation pane to find apps you own
or apps shared with you
Find apps quickly: Filter and sort apps to locate what you need
Take action: Hover over any app name to Edit, Play, or access Commands for sharing,
viewing details, and settings
Ready to customize? Learn advanced app editing techniques →

Last updated on 02/24/2026

Copilot and AI features in Power
Apps documentation
Learn about Copilot and generative AI features in Microsoft Power Apps.

Get started

ｂ GET STARTED
Copilot in Power Apps overview
Copilot admin settings
FAQ about using AI responsibly
Enable or disable Copilot features
Improve Copilot responses from Microsoft Dataverse

Create and use plans

ｅ OVERVIEW
Overview and prerequisites
FAQ for plans

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Create a plan
Create a plan from a solution

Create and edit apps with Copilot

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Build apps through conversation with Copilot
Create a canvas app description with Copilot (preview)

Create a model-driven app description with Copilot
Use field suggestions by Copilot
Create a generative page in a model-driven app (preview)
Use Copilot to create and edit Power Fx formulas
Rename controls in canvas apps with Copilot (preview)
Add a Copilot control to a canvas app (preview)
Add a custom Copilot to a canvas app (preview)

Implement agent supervision and automation

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Supervise agents using agent feed (preview)
Add agents to be supervised in app (preview)
Add an agent response control (preview)
Build an agent to automate your business process
Add agents to your model-driven app

Explore Copilot chat features

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Add Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps (preview)
Use Microsoft 365 Copilot in model-driven apps (preview)
Customize Microsoft 365 Copilot with an agent (preview)

Streamline data entry

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Get assistance filling forms
Use smart paste

Use Copilot in the email rich text editor

Explore and visualize data

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Explore data in a view
Visualize data in a view
See row summaries in a form and view
Use prompt columns

Summarize and provide contextual insight

ｃ HOW-TO GUIDE
Use Copilot case summary
Use timeline highlights powered by generative AI
Create a custom row summary

Integrate custom AI experiences

ｐ CONCEPT
Use APIs to create custom AI powered experiences (preview)

Copilot in Power Apps overview
Copilot in Power Apps lets you quickly build apps using natural language. Describe your
business needs, and the service generates an app and data model for you—no coding
required. People interact with your app by asking questions or giving commands in everyday
language, making the experience more intuitive and engaging. This article gives an overview of
Copilot in Power Apps, including prerequisites, availability, and how to manage Copilot
features in your environment. Learn about Copilot and generative AI features in Microsoft
Power Apps.

Prerequisites
Each Copilot feature can have different requirements. Check the documentation for each
feature to learn what you need.
） Important
This capability is powered by Azure OpenAI Service.
Some Copilot features are in preview.
Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted
functionality. These features are subject to supplemental terms of use

, and are

available before an official release so customers can get early access and provide
feedback.

Availability
This capability might not be available in your region yet. Learn more in Explore Copilot
features by geography and languages

.

This capability might be subject to usage limits or capacity throttling.
Understand the capabilities and limitations of AI-powered and Copilot features in Power
Apps. Learn more in FAQ about using AI responsibly in Power Apps.

Enable or disable Copilot features
Generally available Copilot features are on by default and can't be turned off except by
Microsoft Support. To turn them off, a tenant admin needs to contact Support.

Turn off Copilot preview features in Power Apps

Copilot preview features are on by default, but your admin can turn them off for an
environment or a tenant.

Turn off Copilot preview features for an environment
1. Sign in to the Power Platform admin center

.

2. In the navigation pane, select Environments, and then select an environment.
3. On the command bar, select Settings > Features.
4. Set the Copilot toggle to Off.

Turn off Copilot preview features for your tenant
1. Sign in to the Power Platform admin center

.

2. In the navigation pane, select Settings to open the Tenant settings page.
3. Select Copilot in Power Apps (preview), and then set the toggle to Off.
4. Select Save.
７ Note
Turning off Copilot for your tenant turns off Copilot for makers only. It doesn't turn off the
Copilot control for canvas apps or Copilot for model-driven apps.

Related information
Copilot features in Power Apps
FAQ about using AI responsibly in Power Apps
Language availability for Power Platform
Geographical availability for Power Platform
） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more

Last updated on 01/21/2026

Use the Learn hub
Article • 09/27/2023

The Learn hub gives you easy access to resources that help you as you're learning to
build Power Apps, include training material, product documentation, announcements
and event notices, and help from the Power Apps community.
1. To access the Learn hub, go to the Power Apps home page

and select Learn in

the left navigation pane.
2. Use Experience level to select the content level that best suits your needs.
3. Select a tab to access the information that you're looking for.

The Learn hub includes the following sections:
The banner at the top showcases the latest announcements, trending posts, and
information about upcoming Microsoft events.

The Experience Level menu provides learning content based on the experience
level that you select. For instance, if you are a developer seeking information about
extensibility points in Power Apps, choose Advanced to find relevant help
resources.

The Overview tab lists featured training paths and modules, posts from the
community, help articles, and training videos on YouTube.

The Courses tab provides guided training such as training paths, modules, and
training events.
The Articles tab lists relevant posts in public blogs.
The Community tab provides access to content from the Power Apps community,
including user groups, networking events, the LinkedIn Power Apps community,
and more.
The Support tab is where you can find help articles, report a problem, and submit
an idea.

From your org (preview)
In Managed Environments, admins can provide customized welcome content to help
makers get started with Power Apps. Learn about customizing maker welcome content
(preview). If your organization has created custom welcome content, you see it when
you sign in to Power Apps as a maker.
You can select Don't show this again here if you prefer not to see the custom content
when you sign in.
To get back to it later, open the Learn hub and select From your org.

What's new in Power Apps?
Article • 08/14/2024

This topic provides resources for you to learn about the new features that have been
recently released, features that will be releasing over the next few months, and known
limitations and resolutions.

Weekly releases
For information about the new features, fixes, and improvements released in the past
few weeks, see Released versions for Microsoft Power Apps.
To learn more about how to browse information in the weekly release notes, read this
blog post

.

７ Note
Releases are rolled out over several days. New or updated functionality might not
appear immediately.

Release plan
For information about new features being released over the next few months that you
can use for planning, see Release Planner .

Monthly releases for model-driven apps
Power Platform admins can define the release cadence for features in model-driven
apps.
ﾉ

Expand table

Channel

Frequency

Notes

Semi-

Twice per

Rollout follows weekly releases starting in early April and early

annual

year

October. Default release cadence within Power Apps and Dynamics
365.

Monthly

Once per
month

Rollout follows the weekly release schedule starting with the first
weekly release for the month.

For more information about release channel options and monthly channel, go to Release
channel overview.

Known limitations
For information about known limitations, see Common issues and resolutions.

See also
Power Platform release plans

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

Get your developer environment
(preview)
Article • 04/18/2023

[This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
By default, Microsoft Power Platform app makers can create up to three developer type
environments. Developer environments are special environments intended only for use
by the owner. Use these environments to build, test, and perform application lifecycle
management (ALM) with Power Apps, Power Automate, and Microsoft Dataverse.
） Important
This is a preview feature.
Developer type environments allow you to:
Create apps and flows without writing code, with full-featured Power Apps and
Power Automate development tools. Easily share and collaborate on these
solutions with others.
Use a fully managed, scalable data platform with Dataverse, including support for
common business application actions. Use out-of-the-box common tables or build
your own data schema.
Export the solutions you create in your developer environment and then import
them into other Power Platform environments so users can test and use them.

Prerequisites
To create a developer environment, you need an active Power Platform plan that
includes Dataverse. More information: Licensing overview for Microsoft Power Platform

Create your own developer type environment
1. Sign in to Power Apps .

2. Select the environment picker > Try it now.

3. Follow the instructions on your screen to create your environment.

Create your own environment when you sign
up for the Power Apps Developer Plan
The Power Apps Developer Plan gives you up to three free development type
environments to build and test with Power Apps, Power Automate, and Microsoft
Dataverse. The developer environments maintained under this plan will be available as
long as you actively use the Power Apps Developer Plan.
More information: Create a developer environment with the Power Apps Developer Plan

See also
Environments overview

Power Apps preview program
Article • 05/15/2024

Microsoft Power Apps updates the platform and its capabilities every few days or weeks.
The Power Apps preview program is a way to get early access to features and updates
before they become available in other regions (where customer production apps are
deployed).
With the Power Apps preview program, you can:
Try out, learn, and dogfood upcoming features: Many features are rolled out first
in the preview for a few days to get feedback. By participating in the preview
program, you can learn about new features sooner and provide feedback. Also,
you can quickly take advantage of new features as soon as they reach regions
where their production apps are created.
Enable business continuity by ensuring current apps continue to work with the
upcoming updates (vNext) of Power Apps.

What in Power Apps is available for preview?
To access the preview features, you need to be in a preview environment or using a
preview URL. We have preview features for the following areas across Power Apps.

Canvas apps
For preview, experimental, and retired features in canvas apps, use Power Apps Studio to
turn the features On or Off while editing your app.
For early access to upcoming changes in canvas apps, use the following environments:
Preview environments - Upcoming changes are typically rolled out to preview
environments 1-2 weeks before they're available to all other regions.
Sandbox environments - To access preview version of Power Apps on sandbox
environments, use make.preview.powerapps.com.

Model-driven apps and app management
You can create, manage, and share apps using Power Apps

(make.powerapps.com). To

use the preview features, we recommend that you are in a preview or sandbox
environment and not in a production environment. Then, go to the preview version of
Power Apps

(make.preview.powerapps.com).

How to get early access to the upcoming
updates?
７ Note
Preview (United States) has been replaced with the Early release cycle option.
Following the instructions below, you can create preview, or early release cycle
environments in the United States region and other regions that may be closer to
your location.
For Power Platform, all the apps, flows, and related resources are stored in an
environment. Early access to all preview features is available when an admin creates an
environment that supports the Get new features early option. A subset of the regions
currently have this capability and the environment must be created in one of those
regions. For more information, see Early release cycle environments.
All the apps and other resources created in this environment are on the vNext version of
the platform.

How to learn about the latest updates?
You can get aware of the new features, which are available for preview at What’s new in
Power Apps. The features that are only available in the preview have a ‘Preview’ tag.

Key scenarios to test with the preview program
1. Validate your production apps with the upcoming Power Apps updates (vNext)
You might like to verify your production apps, to be working fine with the next
upcoming updates on Power Apps. You can copy the apps from a production
environment to an environment in First Release and play the apps to test out the
scenarios. Note, all the other necessary resources like CustomAPI, Power Automate,
etc., need to be moved along with it. This should just create another copy of these
apps and required resources. You can start testing out the newer updates not just
for playing an app, but also while editing and managing the apps.
2. Trying out the new features available in preview
We launch many new features initially in the Preview (United States) region. You
can try out the new features before they become available in the rest of the

regions (which might impact your production environment).

How to provide feedback to the product team?
You can provide feedback on the Power Apps forum

and/or contact support

.

What are the known issues and limitations?
1. Clients not available in preview
There are certain features, and services available in preview:
ﾉ

Expand table

Create an app

Playing an app

Others

Available in
preview?

Web studio

Web player

Flow, Connectors
and Gateways

Yes

Desktop version
of studio

Power Apps mobile for iOS,
Android, and Windows

No

2. Using apps created in preview environments in production environments
Power Apps doesn't support opening apps saved in preview only versions of Power
Apps in production environments. Most versions of Power Apps eventually move
from preview into production, but how and when this happens is influenced by
many factors so it shouldn't be relied on. We recommend you use production
environments to create or edit any app intended for use in a production
environment.

Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Provide product feedback

 Yes

 No

System requirements, limits, and
configuration values for Power Apps
This article contains information on supported device platforms, web browser requirements,
limits, and configuration values for Power Apps.

Supported platforms for running apps by using the
Power Apps mobile app
７ Note
To ensure an optimal user experience, test your app on the specific devices you plan
to use for production deployment.
Performance testing and results can vary between device types such as mobile,
desktop, and laptops. Factors include processing power, memory capacity, network
connectivity, app complexity, and other apps running in parallel on a device. Make
sure the test results meet your business requirements before you roll out the
solutions in production.

ﾉ

Expand table

Platform

Version

iOS

The latest version of iOS is always the recommended version to run Power Apps mobile. The
previous version is the minimum required.

Android

The latest version of Android is always the recommended version to run Power Apps mobile.
The previous three versions are the minimum required to run Power Apps mobile.

Windows

Windows 10 version 17763.0 or later to run Power Apps for Windows.

７ Note
New major versions of iOS and Android release each year. When a new version releases, if
you're using the oldest previously supported version, you have 60 days to update your
device to at least the new minimum supported version to continue to run Power Apps
mobile.

Supported browsers for running Power Apps
ﾉ

Expand table

Browser

Supported versions

App type

Google
Chrome

Latest three major
releases

Model-driven apps, canvas apps, app and component
designers1.

Microsoft Edge

Latest three major
releases

Model-driven apps, canvas apps, app and component
designers1.

Mozilla Firefox

Latest three major
releases

Model-driven apps and canvas apps.

Apple Safari

13 and later

Model-driven apps and canvas apps.

1App and component designers include Power Apps studio, model-driven app designer, and

model-driven custom page designer.

Supported operating systems for browsers running
Power Apps
ﾉ

Expand table

Operating

Supported

system

versions

Windows

Windows 10 or

Model-driven apps, canvas apps, app and component

later

designers1.

10.13 or later

Model-driven apps, canvas apps, app and component

macOS

App type

designers1.
iOS

iOS 13 or later

Model-driven apps2 and canvas apps.

Android

10 or later

Model-driven apps2 and canvas apps.

1

App and component designers include Power Apps studio, model-driven app designer, and

model-driven custom page designer.
2

Using the web browser on a phone to run a model-driven app isn't supported; use the Power

Apps mobile app.
For classic web application system requirements, see Web application requirements.

