       If you have an app you want to embed, the first step is to set parameters for the
       Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), so that the iframe knows where to find the app. The
       URI is in the following form:
        https://apps.powerapps.com/play/[AppID]?source=iframe
       For GCC users
        https://apps.gov.powerapps.us/play/[AppID]?source=iframe
        ） Important
        As of August 2019, the URI format has changed from
        https://web.powerapps.com/webplayer  to https://apps.powerapps.com/play .
        Please update any embedded iframes to use the new URI format. References to the
        previous format will be redirected to the new URI to ensure compatibility.
        Previous format:
        https://web.powerapps.com/webplayer/iframeapp?
        source=iframe&appId=/providers/Microsoft.PowerApps/apps/[AppID]
       The only thing you have to do is substitute the ID of your app for [AppID] in the URI
       (including '[' & ']'). We'll show you how to get that value shortly, but first here are all the
       parameters available in the URI:
         [appID] - It provides the ID of the app to run.
         tenantid - is an optional parameter to support guest access and determines which
         tenant to open the app from.
         screenColor - is used to provide a better app loading experience for your users.
         This parameter is in the format RGBA (red value, green value, blue value, alpha)
         and controls the screen color while the app loads. It is best to set it to the same
         color as your app's icon.
         source - does not affect the app, but we suggest you add a descriptive name to
         refer to the source of the embedding.
         Lastly, you can add any custom parameters you want using the Param() function,
         and those values can be consumed by your app. They are added to the end of the
         URI, such as [AppID]?source=iframe&param1=value1&param2=value2. These
                 parameters are read only during launch of the app. If you need to change them,
                 you must relaunch the app. Note that only the first item after [appid] should have
                 a "?"; after that use the "&" as illustrated here.
            Get the App ID
            The app ID is available on powerapps.com. For the app you want to embed:
              1. In powerapps.com   , on the Apps tab, click or tap the ellipsis ( . . . ), then Details.
              2. Copy the App ID.
         3. Substitute the [AppID] value in the URI. For our Asset Ordering app, the URI looks
          like this:
            https://apps.powerapps.com/play/76897698-91a8-b2de-756e-fe2774f114f2?
            source=iframe
       You may need to allow pop-ups in browser when you embed an app in your website
       that uses Launch() function to launch a webpage or an app.
       Embed your app in a website
       Embedding your app is now as simple as adding the iframe to the HTML code for your
       site (or any other service that supports iframes, such as Power BI or SharePoint):
         HTML
         <iframe width="[W]" height="[H]" 
         src="https://apps.powerapps.com/play/[AppID]?
        source=website&screenColor=rgba(165,34,55,1)" allow="geolocation; 
        microphone; camera"/>
       Specify values for the iframe width and height, and substitute the ID of your app for
       [AppID].
        ７ Note
        Include allow="geolocation; microphone; camera" in your iframe HTML code to
        allow your apps to use these capabilities on Google Chrome.
       The following image shows the Asset Ordering app embedded in a Contoso sample
       website.
       Keep the following points in mind for authenticating users of your app:
                    If your website uses Microsoft Entra ID based authentication, no additional sign-in
                    is required.
                    If your website uses any other sign-in mechanism or is not authenticated, your
                    users see a sign-in prompt on the iframe. After they sign-in, they will be able to
                    run the app as long as the author of the app has shared it with them.
              As you can see, embedding apps is simple and powerful. Embedding enables you to
              bring apps right to the places you and your customers work – websites, Power BI
              dashboards, SharePoint pages, and more.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
           Develop offline-capable canvas apps
           Article • 03/18/2024
           Mobile users often need to be productive even when they have limited or no
           connectivity. When you build a canvas app, you can perform these tasks:
                Open Power Apps Mobile and run apps when the device is not connected to the
                network.
                Determine when an app is offline, online, or in a metered connection by using the
                Connection signal object.
                Synchronize data between your device and the server.
           If your app connects to Dataverse, offline support is built-in. Power Apps will allows you
           to download data to your device and upload changes back to Dataverse. If your app
           does not use Dataverse, you can use collections and leverage the LoadData and
           SaveData functions for basic storage when offline.
              ７ Note
                   Offline capability for canvas apps is available while running the apps using the
                   native Power Apps Mobile   players on iOS, Android, and Windows.
                   Canvas apps running in web browsers can't run offline, even when using a
                   web browser on a mobile device.
                   Canvas apps in Teams are limited to 1 MB of data through the LoadData and
                   SaveData functions—useful for a small number of text strings, numbers, and
                   dates. Use of images or other media is inappropriate for this limit. More
                   information: LoadData and SaveData function reference
           Enable offline support in a Dataverse-based
           canvas app
           For Microsoft Dataverse-based canvas apps, you must use the offline capability built-in
           with the offline-first experience. For more information, see Set up mobile offline for
           canvas apps and Working with canvas apps offline. With the flip of a switch, your app
           can work with Dataverse data wherever you are, with or without a network connection.
           Just build your app with standard Power Fx formulas and the offline feature handles all
           the complexity for you.
       Use LoadData and SaveData for all other
       connectors
       This section includes an example using Twitter data. An even simpler example that
       doesn't require a connection is included in the LoadData and SaveData function
       reference.
       Watch this video to learn how to create offline enabled canvas apps which don't use
       Dataverse data:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=60fd9b60-80a9-445b-bd4e-
       b7f4f068431e&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
       apps%2Foffline-apps
       Limitations
       LoadData and SaveData combine to form a simple mechanism to store small amounts
       of data on a local device. By using these functions, you can add simple offline
       capabilities to your app.
       These functions are limited by the amount of available app memory because they
       operate on an in-memory collection. Available memory can vary depending on the
       device, the operating system, the memory that Power Apps Mobile uses, and the
       complexity of the app in terms of screens and controls. If you store more than a few
       megabytes of data, test your app with expected scenarios on the devices on which you
       expect it to run. You'll generally have 30-70 megabytes of available memory.
       The functions also don't automatically resolve merge conflicts when a device comes
       online. Configuration on what data is saved and how to handle reconnection is up to the
       maker when writing expressions.
       For updates on offline capabilities, return to this topic, and subscribe to the Power Apps
       blog .
       Overview
       When you design offline scenarios, you should first consider how your apps work with
       data. Apps in Power Apps primarily access data through a set of connectors that the
       platform provides, such as SharePoint, Office 365, and Microsoft Dataverse. You can also
       build custom connectors that enable apps to access any service that provides a RESTful
       endpoint. This could be a Web API or a service such as Azure Functions. All these
       connectors use HTTPS over the Internet, which means your users must be online for
       them to access data and any other capabilities that a service offers.
       Handling offline data
       In Power Apps, you can filter, search, sort, aggregate, and manipulate data in a
       consistent way regardless of the data source. Sources range from in-memory collections
       in the app to lists created using Microsoft Lists to SQL databases and Dataverse.
       Because of this consistency, you can easily retarget an app to use a different data
       source. More importantly for offline scenarios, you can use local collections for data
       management with almost no changes to an app's logic. In fact, local collections are the
       primary mechanism for handling offline data.
       Build an offline app
       To keep the focus on the offline aspects of app development, this topic illustrates a
       simple scenario focused around Twitter. You'll build an app that enables you to read
       Twitter posts and submit tweets while being offline. When the app comes online, the
       app posts tweets and reloads the local data.
       At a high level, the app performs these tasks:
          When the user opens the app:
            If the device is online, the app fetches data through the Twitter connector and
            populates a collection with that data.
            If the device is offline, the app loads the data from a local cache file by using the
            LoadData function.
            The user can submit tweets. If the app is online, it posts the tweets directly to
            Twitter and refreshes the local cache.
          Every five minutes while the app is online:
            The app posts any tweets in the local cache.
            The app refreshes the local cache and saves it by using the SaveData function.
         Step 1: Add Twitter to a blank phone app
           1. Create a blank canvas app with Phone layout.
           2. On the View tab, select Data sources.
           3. In the Data pane, select Add data source.
           4. Select New Connection > Twitter > Create.
           5. Enter your credentials, create the connection, and then close the Data pane.
         Step 2: Collect existing tweets
           1. In the Tree view pane, select App, and then set its OnStart property to this
            formula:
              Power Fx
              If( Connection.Connected,
                  ClearCollect( LocalTweets, Twitter.SearchTweet( "PowerApps", 
              {maxResults: 10} ) );
                      Set( statusText, "Online data" ),
                  LoadData( LocalTweets, "LocalTweets", true );
                      Set( statusText, "Local data" )
              );
              SaveData( LocalTweets, "LocalTweets" );
           2. In the Tree view pane, select the ellipsis menu for the App object, and then select
            Run OnStart to run that formula.
              ７ Note
              The LoadData and SaveData functions might show an error in Power Apps
              Studio because browsers don't support them. However, they'll perform
              normally after you deploy this app to a device.
         This formula checks whether the device is online:
            If the device is online, the formula loads up to 10 tweets with the search term
            "PowerApps" into a LocalTweets collection.
            If the device is offline, the formula loads the local cache from a file called
            "LocalTweets" if it's available.
         Step 3: Show tweets in a gallery
           1. On the Insert tab, select Gallery > Blank flexible height.
           2. Set the Items property of the Gallery control to LocalTweets.
           3. In the gallery template, add three Label controls, and set the Text property of each
            label to one of these values:
                ThisItem.UserDetails.FullName & " (@" & ThisItem.UserDetails.UserName &
                ")"
                Text(DateTimeValue(ThisItem.CreatedAtIso), DateTimeFormat.ShortDateTime)
                ThisItem.TweetText
           4. Make the text in the last label bold so that the gallery resembles this example.
         Step 4: Show connection status
           1. Under the gallery, insert a label, and then set its Color property to Red.
           2. Set the newest label's Text property to this formula:
            If( Connection.Connected, "Connected", "Offline" )
        This formula determines whether the device is online. If it is, the label shows Connected;
        otherwise, it shows Offline.
        Step 5: Add a box to compose tweets
          1. Under the connection-status label, insert a Text input control, and rename it
            NewTweetTextInput.
          2. Set the text-input box's Default property to "".
        Step 6: Add a button to post the tweet
          1. Under the text-input box, add a Button control, and set its Text property to this
            value:
            "Tweet"
          2. Set the button's OnSelect property to this formula:
             Power Fx
             If( Connection.Connected,
                 Twitter.Tweet( "", {tweetText: NewTweetTextInput.Text} ),
                 Collect( LocalTweetsToPost, {tweetText: NewTweetTextInput.Text} );
                     SaveData( LocalTweetsToPost, "LocalTweetsToPost" )
             );
             Reset( NewTweetTextInput );
          3. In the OnStart property for the App, add a line at the end of the formula:
             Power Fx
             If( Connection.Connected,
                 ClearCollect( LocalTweets, Twitter.SearchTweet( "PowerApps", 
             {maxResults: 100} ) );
                     Set( statusText, "Online data" ),
                 LoadData( LocalTweets, "LocalTweets", true );
                     Set( statusText, "Local data" )
             );
             SaveData( LocalTweets, "LocalTweets" );
             LoadData( LocalTweetsToPost, "LocalTweetsToPost", true );  // added 
             line
        This formula determines whether the device is online:
            If the device is online, it posts the tweet immediately.
            If the device is offline, it captures the tweet in a LocalTweetsToPost collection and
            saves it to the device.
        Then the formula resets the text in the text-input box.
        Step 7: Check for new tweets
          1. On the right side of the button, add a Timer control.
              2. Set the timer's Duration property to 300000.
              3. Set the timer's AutoStart and Repeat properties to true.
              4. Set the timer's OnTimerEnd to this formula:
                   Power Fx
                   If( Connection.Connected,
                       ForAll( LocalTweetsToPost, Twitter.Tweet( "", {tweetText: 
                   tweetText} ) );
                       Clear( LocalTweetsToPost );
                       ClearCollect( LocalTweets, Twitter.SearchTweet( "PowerApps", 
                   {maxResults: 10} ) );
                       SaveData( LocalTweets, "LocalTweets" );
                   )
            This formula determines whether the device is online. If it is, the app tweets all the items
            in the LocalTweetsToPost collection and then clears the collection.
            Test the app
              1. Open the app using Power Apps Mobile    on a mobile device that's connected to
                 the Internet.
                 Existing tweets appear in the gallery, and the status shows Connected.
              2. Disconnect the device from the Internet by enabling the device's airplane mode
                 and disabling wi-fi.
                  The status label shows that the app is Offline.
                3. While the device is offline, write a tweet that includes Power Apps, and then select
                  the Tweet button.
                  The tweet is stored locally in the LocalTweetsToPost collection.
                4. Reconnect the device to the Internet by disabling the device's airplane mode and
                  enabling wi-fi.
                  Within five minutes, the app posts the tweet, which appears in the gallery.
             We hope this article gives you an idea of the capabilities that Power Apps has for
             building offline apps. As always, please provide feedback in our forum   and share your
             examples of offline apps in the Power Apps community blog     .
             Feedback
             Was this page helpful?         
                                      Yes       No
             Provide product feedback
     Canvas component overview
      ７ Note
         This section explains canvas components that encompass low-code UI extensibility
         capabilities. Professional developers can also use the Power Apps component
         framework to build code components.
         You can also use canvas components in model-driven apps by using custom pages
         and the component library. For more information, see Add canvas components to a
         custom page in a model-driven app.
     Components are reusable building blocks for canvas apps. App makers can create custom
     controls to use inside an app, or across apps by using a component library. Components can
     use advanced features such as custom properties and enable complex capabilities. This article
     introduces component concepts and some examples.
     Components are useful when building larger apps that have similar control patterns. If you
     update a component definition inside the app, all instances in the app reflect your changes.
     Components also reduce duplication of effort by eliminating the need to copy and paste
     controls and improve performance. When you use a component library, components help
     create collaborative development and standardize the look and feel in an organization.
     To learn how to use components in canvas apps, watch this video:
     https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=7ec063b0-df8e-4cf8-b407-
     72ce6132115f&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fmaker%2Fcanvas-
     apps%2Fcreate-component
     Components in canvas apps
     You can create a component from within an app as explained in this article, or by creating a
     new component inside a component library. Use a component library when you need to use
     components across multiple app screens. You can also copy existing components into an
     existing or a new component library.
     To create a component within an app, go to Tree View, select the Components tab, and then
     select New component:
    Selecting New component opens an empty canvas. Add controls as part of the component
    definition on the canvas. If you edit a component in the canvas, you update instances of the
    same component in other app screens. Apps that reuse an already created component can also
    receive component updates after you publish component changes.
    You can select a component from the list of existing components in the left pane after you
    select a screen. When you select a component, you insert an instance of that component onto
    the screen, just as you insert a control.
    Components available inside the app appear under the Custom category in a list of
    components inside the tree view. Components imported from component libraries appear
    under the Library components category:
      ７ Note
      The components discussed in this article are different from the Power Apps component
      framework that enables developers and makers to create code components for model-
      driven and canvas apps. For more information, see Power Apps component framework
      overview.
     Custom properties
     A component can receive input values and emit data if you create one or more custom
     properties. These scenarios are advanced and require you to understand formulas and binding
     contracts.
      ７ Note
      An experimental feature for enhanced component properties provides even more options
      for properties, including functions and behavior functions. For more information, see
      Canvas component properties (experimental)
      Input property is how a component receives data to be used in the component. Input
      properties appear in the Properties tab of the right-hand pane if an instance of the component
      is selected. You can configure input properties with expressions or formulas, just as you
      configure standard properties in other controls. Other controls have input properties, such as
      the Default property of a Text input control.
      Output property is used to emit data or component state. For example, the Selected property
      on a Gallery control is an output property. When you create an output property, you can
      determine what other controls can refer to the component state.
      The following walk-through further explains these concepts.
      Create an example component
      In this example, you'll create a menu component that resembles the following graphic. And you
      can change the text later to use it in multiple screens, apps, or both:
       ７ Note
       We recommend that you use a component library when creating components for reuse.
       Updating components inside an app only makes the component updates available inside
       the app. When using a component library, you get prompted to update components if
       components inside a library are updated and published.
      Create a new component
       1. Create a blank canvas app.
       2. In the Tree View, select Components and then select New component to create a new
         component.
      3. Select the new component in the left pane, select the ellipsis (...), and then select Rename.
       Type or paste the name as MenuComponent.
      4. In the right-hand pane, set the component's width as 150 and its height as 250, and then
       select New custom property. You can also set the height and width to any other value as
       appropriate.
      5. In the Display name, Property name, and Description boxes, type or paste text as Items.
       Don't include spaces in the property name because you'll refer to the component by this
       name when you write a formula. For example, ComponentName.PropertyName.
       The display name appears on the Properties tab of the right-hand pane if you select the
       component. A descriptive display name helps you and other makers understand the
       purpose of this property. The Description appears in a tooltip if you hover over the
       display name of this property in the Properties tab.
      6. In the Data type list, select Table, and then select Create.
       The Items property is set to a default value based on the data type that you specified. You
       can set it to a value that suits your needs. If you specified a data type of Table or Record,
       you might want to change the value of the Items property to match the data schema that
       you want to input to the component. In this case, you'll change it to a list of strings.
       You can set the property's value in the formula bar if you select the name of the property
       on the Properties tab of the right-hand pane.
        As the next graphic shows, you can also edit the property's value on the Advanced tab of
        the right-hand pane.
      7. Set the component's Items property to this formula:
        Power Fx
        Table({Item:"SampleText"})
      8. In the component, insert a blank vertical Gallery control and select Layout on the
        property pane as Title.
      9. Make sure that the property list shows the Items property (as it does by default). Then set
        the value of that property to this expression:
        Power Fx
        MenuComponent.Items
         This way, the Items property of the Gallery control reads and depends on the Items input
         property of the component.
       10. (Optional) Set the Gallery control's BorderThickness property to 1 and its TemplateSize
         property to 50. You can also update values for border thickness and template size to any
         other value as appropriate.
      Add component to a screen
      Next, add the component to a screen and specify a table of strings for the component to show.
       1. In the left pane, select the list of screens, and then select the default screen.
       2. On the Insert tab, open the Components menu, and then select MenuComponent.
         The new component is named MenuComponent_1 by default.
       3. Set the Items property of MenuComponent_1 to this formula:
          Power Fx
          Table({Item:"Home"}, {Item:"Admin"}, {Item:"About"}, {Item:"Help"})
         This instance resembles this graphic, but you can customize the text and other properties
         of each instance.
    Create and use output property
    So far, you created a component and added it to an app. Next, create an output property that
    reflects the item that the user selects in the menu.
      1. Open the list of components, and then select MenuComponent.
      2. In the right-hand pane, select the Properties tab, and then select New custom property.
      3. In the Display name, Property name, and Description boxes, type or paste Selected.
      4. Under Property type, select Output, and then select Create.
      5. On the Advanced tab, set the value of the Selected property to this expression, adjusting
       the numeral in the gallery name if necessary:
        Power Fx
        Gallery1.Selected.Item
      6. On the default screen of the app, add a label, and set its Text property to this expression,
        adjusting the numeral in the component name if necessary:
        Power Fx
        MenuComponent_1.Selected
        MenuComponent_1 is the default name of an instance, not the name of the component
        definition. You can rename any instance.
      7. While holding down the Alt key, select each item in the menu.
        The Label control reflects the menu item that you selected most recently.
     Scope
     Input and output properties clearly define the interface between a component and its host app.
     By default, the component is encapsulated so that it's easier to reuse the component across
     apps, requiring the use of the properties to pass the information in and out of the component.
     Scope restrictions keep the data contract of a component simple and cohesive, and it helps
     enable component-definition updates—especially across apps with component libraries.
     But there are times when a component might want to share a data source or a variable with its
     host. This sharing is especially useful when the component is only intended for use in one
     particular app. For these cases, you can directly access app level information by turning on the
     Access app scope switch in the component's property pane:
         When you turn on Access app scope, the following items are accessible from within a
         component:
              Global variables
              Collections
              Controls and components on screens, such as a TextInput control
              Tabular data sources, such as Dataverse tables
         When you turn this setting off, the component can't access any of the preceding items. Set and
         Collect functions are still available but the resulting variables and collections are scoped to the
         component instance and aren't shared with the app.
         Non-tabular data sources, such as Azure Blob Storage or a custom connector, are available
         whether this setting is turned on or off. Think of these data sources more like referencing an
         environment resource rather than an app resource. When a component is brought into an app
         from a component library, these data sources from the environment are also brought in.
         Components in a component library can never access app scope, as there's no single app
         scope to refer to. So, this setting isn't available in this context, and is effectively off. Once
         imported into an app, and if customization is allowed by the component maker, the switch can
         be enabled, and the component can be modified to use the app scope.
           ７ Note
                You can insert instances of components into a screen within a component library,
                and preview that screen for testing purposes.
                Component library doesn't display when using Power Apps Mobile   .
         Import and export components (retired)
       ７ Note
       This feature is retired. Component libraries are the recommended way to reuse the
       components across the apps. When using component library, an app maintains
       dependencies on the components it uses. The app maker is alerted when the updates to
       dependent components become available. Hence, all new reusable components should be
       created within the component libraries instead.
      The ability to import and export components is disabled by default since this feature is retired.
      While the recommended method to work with components is to use component libraries, you
      can still enable this feature on a per-app basis as an exception until the feature is removed. To
      do this, edit your app in Power Apps Studio and then, go to Settings > Upcoming features >
      Retired > Set Export and import components to On.
      After you enable this feature, you can use the following capabilities to import and export
      components.
      Import components from another app
      To import one or more components from one app into another app, select Import
      components from the Insert menu and then use the Custom drop-down menu. Or use
      Components in the tree view on the left pane.
      A dialog box lists all apps that contain components that you have permission to edit. Select an
      app, and then select Import to import the most recent published version of all of the
      components in that app. After you import at least one component, you can edit your copy and
      delete any that you don't need.
      You can save an app with existing components to a file locally and then reuse the file by
      importing it. You can use the file to import components to another app.
      If the app contains a modified version of the same component, you're prompted to decide
      whether to replace the modified version or cancel the import.
      After you create components in an app, other apps can consume the components from this
      app by importing them.
       ７ Note
       If a component that you imported from another app is modified in the original app, you
       must manually import the component again in the consuming app to receive latest
       component changes. Use component libraries instead to work with component updates
       more efficiently.
      Export components from your app
      You can export components to a file and download them for import to another app.
    Select the Export components option from the Components section in the tree view on the
    left pane:
    You can also use the Insert menu and then select the Custom drop-down menu instead.
    Selecting Export components downloads the components to a file:
    The downloaded component file uses the .msapp file name extension.
    Import components from exported components file
      To import components from an exported components file, select Import components from
      either Insert menu and then use the Custom drop-down menu or use Components in the tree
      view on the left pane. From the components dialog box, select Upload file instead of selecting
      any other components or apps:
      From the Open dialog box, browse to the location of the component file and select Open to
      import components inside the app.
      Import components from exported app
      You can save an app locally by selecting File > Save As:
      After you save the app, you can reuse its components by importing them from a file. For more
      information, see the previous section on importing components from an exported components
      file.
      Known limitations
         When you have two or more instances of the same component in an app, you can't
         configure a custom input property to a custom output property value across same or
          different instances. This action results in a circular reference warning message. To work
          around this limitation, create a copy of the component inside your app.
          Adding and running Power Automate flows in component libraries isn't supported.
          You can't save data sources or controls that include data from those data sources (such as
          forms, fluid grids, or data tables) with components.
          You can't insert a component into a gallery or a form (including SharePoint form).
          Components don't support the UpdateContext function, but you can create and update
          variables in a component by using the Set function. The scope of these variables is limited
          to the component, but you can access them from outside the component through
          custom output properties.
      Next steps
      Learn to use a component library to create a repository of reusable components.
      See also
          Component library
          Component library application lifecycle management (ALM)
          Map input fields of a component
          Add multimedia to a component
          Behavior formulas for components
          Power Apps component framework
          Add canvas components to a custom page in a model-driven app
       Last updated on 01/14/2026
        Component library
        Article • 12/19/2023
        In the overview article for creating components, you're introduced to components inside
        canvas app. As you create components inside an app, you can also create a library of
        components that can be reused. By creating a component library, app makers easily
        share and update one or more components with other makers.
        Component libraries are containers of component definitions that make it easy to:
           Discover and search components.
           Publish updates.
           Notify app makers of available component updates.
         ７ Note
         Component libraries are the recommended way to reuse components across apps.
         When using a component library, an app maintains dependencies on the
         components it uses. The app maker will be alerted when the updates to dependent
         components become available. Hence, all new reusable components should be
         created within the component libraries instead. An earlier Power Apps feature that
         allowed importing components from one canvas app to another is retired.
        Difference between an app and a component
        library
        A component library provides a centralized and managed repository of components for
        reusability.
        The Insert pane on the left navigation defaults to a components tab if you create a
        component library. When you create an app, this view shows screens instead of
        components.
        The screens inside a component library are available for testing only. It provides library
        creators a way to quickly test the created components on an actual screen and also
        validate the update behavior as components are enhanced over time. To use the
        components from the component library, you must create an app that uses the
        component library.
            You can preview component library components using the screens inside the library with
            the play option. When you select the component tab, the play option is disabled. The
            component library doesn't display when using Power Apps Mobile.
              ７ Note
              The component library discussed in this article is different from the Power Apps
              component framework that enables developers and makers to create code
              components for model-driven and canvas apps. For more information, go to Power
              Apps component framework overview.
            Working with component library
            You can create a new component library or edit an existing component library from the
            same interface. Go to Power Apps   > select More from left navigation > select
            Discover all > select Component libraries from the App enhancements section. You can
            also pin Component libraries option to your Power Apps interface. More information:
            Left navigation in Power Apps
            Create an example component library
            The steps to create components inside a component library are the same as creating
            components inside an app. You'll create a component library and then reuse the steps
            for creating components from components overview example. Then you'll use the
            component library to provide the reusable components in a new app.
               1. Sign in to Power Apps .
               2. Select Component libraries in the left navigation, and then select New component
                 library. Alternatively, select More from left navigation > select Discover all > select
                 Component libraries from the App enhancements section.
               3. Name the component library as Menu components; you can also provide a different
                 name of your choice.
               4. Follow the steps to create components from components overview example. You
                 don't have to open Power Apps Studio or create a new blank app, since you
                 already have created a new component library. Start with step 2.
                 After following the steps to create components, follow the next set of steps to also
                 add components to a screen and the steps to create output property.
       5. After you complete the components creation and testing, save the component
        library by selecting the File menu and then selecting Save.
        You also have an option to save a version note. A version note is useful to retrieve
        versions of a component library and for upgrading the components used in apps
        from this component library.
          Tip
         A version note is useful when reviewing versions of a component library and
         for the app makers using your component library to review changes and
         update apps consuming these components as needed. Go to update a
         component library for more details.
       6. A saved component library can be published. Only published component library
        updates are available for apps that consume a component library. Select Publish to
        publish the component library version:
       Library component customization
       When creating component inside a component library, you have the option to allow the
       component to be customized when used by apps consuming the library components. By
       default, this setting is turned On. Turn this setting to Off to remove the ability to
       customize component while using in other apps.
       When you add a component that allows customization, you'll see an option to edit this
       component for more customization. App makes a local copy and you can make changes
       to local component copy. The association with the component library is removed once
       the component is edited.
      Selecting Edit component prompts you to copy the component locally for
      customization.
      However, when you don't allow the components to be customized, the consuming apps
      won't show the option to edit the component.
       In this case, the only way to edit the component is to edit the component library where
       the component is stored.
       Import from a component library
       After you create a component library and publish, apps can consume the components
       from this component library by importing the library. You can also share a component
       library.
       To import from a component library, edit an existing app or create a new app. After the
       app opens in canvas app studio, select Insert or the + on the left navigation. Then select
       Get more components to list the component libraries available in the current
       environment:
      You'll see the list of component libraries available in the current environment on the
      right side of the screen. Select an individual component from a component library. Or
      use Select all to import all of the components from the library at once:
       ７ Note
       If a maker doesn't see the component library listed in the import section, ensure
       the component library is shared with the maker. For more details, go to component
       library permissions.
      Notice you can select and import more than one component and across different
      component libraries.
      Components available inside the app are listed under the Custom category in the list of
      components in the Insert pane. Components available from imported component
      libraries are listed under the Library components category:
       Update a component library
       You can modify an existing component library and save any changes with other version
       notes. However, the updated component library version must be published for use in
       existing apps that use the component library. The example component library steps
       above explain how to publish a component library after saving it.
       There are two ways apps using the components from library can get the latest changes.
       Method 1: Component update notification on app edit
       Makers of other apps are notified of updated components being available. The
       notification appears when makers edit the apps in canvas app studio. They can choose
       to update the components:
      Select Review, and you'll see the option to update the component:
      Notice that the version note you added when publishing the component library version
      shows up here.
      Select Update to update the components.
      Method 2: Proactive check for updates
      This method is to check for the app update proactively while working on the app in
      Studio.
      To do this check, select Insert component panel on the left-side, and then select ...
      (ellipsis) next to the search button. And then, select Check for updates.
       If there are updates in the components used from library, maker will get the message to
       review and get the latest changes. Upon review and update, the app gets updated with
       the latest components.
       The following animation shows the process to get the latest components.
       Updating component from a component library in a
       consuming app
       If you import a component from a component library, you can't edit it inside the
       consuming app. If you select Edit component, you'll see an option to create a copy of
       the component inside the current app for you to make changes:
       If you select Create a copy, the component is copied to the local app. The local copy of
       the component appears under the Custom category in the Insert pane. This local copy
       of the component won't receive updates if a new version of the originating component
       library is published later.
        ７ Note
        The in-use instances of components from the component library won't be affected
        after you create a local copy of a component, and will remain linked to the
        component library definition. Only instances of the locally copied components
        (from Custom category) are considered to be the local app components.
       Deleting a component library
       If a component library is referenced by a canvas app, it can't be deleted. This is true for
       both Power Platform and non-Power Platform environments. Remove the component
       from the app before deleting the library. You can find information about the apps using
       the component library in either solution dependencies view or in the message, which is
       shown when you try to delete library.
       Component library permissions
       Sharing a component library works the same way you share a canvas app. When you
       share a component library, you allow others to reuse the component library. Once
       shared, others can edit the component library and import components from this shared
       component library for creating and editing apps. If shared as a co-owner, a user can use,
       edit, and share a component library but not delete or change the owner.
       Additional considerations when sharing component libraries to security groups:
          You can't use the sharing UI when sharing component libraries created as part of a
          solution. Instead, use Set-PowerAppRoleAssignment cmdlet with CanEdit
          permission level to share the component libraries with the selected security group.
          Component libraries created in a Power Platform environment without a Dataverse
          database shared as Co-owner automatically grant CanEdit permission to the
          selected security group.
              Known limitations
                    Known limitations applicable to components also applies to component libraries.
                    You can't import components from a locally saved component library. It's possible
                    to save a component library using File > Save As > This Computer. But if you try
                    to import such saved component library, you'll see the following error message:
                    If you're importing an app and a component library in an environment for the first
                    time, ensure the app uses the latest version of the component included with the
                    component library. Otherwise, the app won't receive updates after the import. The
                    app will recognize and prompt for the updated version upon subsequent
                    component library imports to the same environment.
                    Code components aren't supported inside component libraries.
              See also
                    Canvas components
                    Component library application lifecycle management (ALM)
                    Map input fields of a component
                    Add multimedia to a component
                    Behavior formulas for components
                    Power Apps component framework
                    Add canvas components to a custom page in a model-driven app
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Component library application lifecycle
       management (ALM)
       Article • 01/24/2023
       A component library is a special type of canvas app that can contain one or more canvas
       components. These library components can then be used by all the other canvas apps in
       the environment. This capability enables you to create reusable shared components
       across all apps in an environment, unlike app-level components that are restricted to
       one app.
       To use a component from a component library, you have to first import the component
       into the canvas app. Once imported, you can then add the component to any app
       screen. Any updates in the component definition from the component library will
       prompt you to review and incorporate the change on demand or when the app is
       opened for editing. Component libraries and dependent apps can also be moved to
       another environment using standard Microsoft Dataverse solutions.
        ７ Note
        In this article, the term "import" refers to importing a component from a
        component library to an app, and shouldn't be confused with importing a solution
        into Dataverse.
       When a component from a component library is imported into a canvas app, that
       component's definition is copied into the definition of the canvas app. Once a
       component definition has been imported, the app is "self-contained" as far as that
       component definition is concerned. The app maker can choose to edit the component,
       and create local instances of the component within the app. At this point there's no
       direct link to the component library from where the component originated. This self-
       containment characteristic also applies if the canvas app is then migrated to a different
       environment where the component library isn't present. You can continue to create
       instances of the imported component definition within the apps in the target
       environment, and the apps can still be published and played. No new updates will be
       prompted or received in the consuming app in this case.
       In order to maintain the relationship from the app to the component library, ensure that
       you use the component library to make any changes to the component, instead of
       editing the component within the consuming app.
       Canvas apps and component libraries solution
       support
       Consistent with the other solution object dependencies, if a canvas app imports a
       canvas component from a component library, it will have a dependency on that
       component library. In order to move an app to the new environment, you'll need to
       either package the component library inside the same solution or install it as a pre-
       requisite. App to component library dependency is maintained in the target
       environment. At a later point, when a component library with the updated component is
       imported using a solution into the target environment, existing apps will get the new
       component definitions using the regular component update flow.
       Creating and exporting component library in a solution
       You can either create a component library directly from within the solution, or add it to
       an existing solution.
       When a component library is saved in an environment that has Dataverse available,
       component library is automatically added to the default solution. A unique logical name
      is generated for the component library with the Default CDS Publisher prefix. This
      behavior is to ensure that the solution system is aware of its presence, and can link the
      dependencies from the apps that use the component library's logical name.
       ７ Note
       Component libraries created before the rollout of the component library ALM
       feature need to be edited, published, and the editor must be closed explicitly
       before they're enabled for the ALM capabilities. You can check the component
       library ALM readiness by its presence in the default solution.
      Component libraries inside a solution also support Allow customizations managed
      properties that govern the behavior of the component library in the target environment.
      If you turn off this setting, and export the solution to a target environment, you won't
      be able to edit the component library.
      Component library dependencies
      Apps that use components from the component library will be marked as dependent in
      the solutions infrastructure. This behavior applies to all apps that are added to any
      Dataverse solution in a given environment. You can still create apps outside of solutions,
      but those apps won't have any solution dependencies. You can later add these apps to
      solutions to make them part of the solution ALM.
       If you import a solution that only has an app that uses a component from a component
       library, but excludes the component library, you'll see the following message:
       "Import failed due to missing dependencies for <app name>".
       In this case, you can choose to install the component library solution first, or bundle the
       component library with the solution that contains the canvas app. Either of the steps
       would ensure the app will have the dependency created in the target environment.
       When the library is updated and a newer component version is imported through the
       solutions, the app will get a notification and receive the updates when the app is
       opened for editing.
        ７ Note
        If the component library managed property Allow customizations is turned off, the
        component library can't be edited in the target environment.
       Dependencies are calculated based on the latest published state of an app. If you
       restore an older version of the app that doesn't use a library component, the
       dependency will be removed from the app, and the solution. Importing a component
       into an app from a component library without actually using it also creates a
       dependency since the unused library component remains available within the app for a
       future use.
         Tip
        Editing a component from a component library inside the consuming app creates a
        local copy. At this point, the library component is still available for use through the
        Insert pane. In order to remove the dependency completely, delete the component
        from Insert > Library components > ... (ellipsis) > Remove from app.
       Best practices and troubleshooting
          Limit the number of components in a library to 20 to get optimal performance.
          Plan and create multiple component libraries in advance as the number of
          components in them will likely grow over time. This approach will also reduce the
          solution payload as apps are moved across the environment.
          There's a delay from when the component library is published to when it's
          available to the application, and can take up to 5 minutes.
        If the app isn't able to receive the update from the library component in the target
        environment where the solution is installed, check using the below actions:
          Changes made to a component library in a target environment reside at the top
          layer of a component. Subsequently, these customizations define the runtime
          behavior of the component. To remove these unmanaged customizations, see
          Remove an unmanaged layer.
          Determine the component library logical name from the solution view. Use the
          default solution if library isn't explicitly added to solution.
          Download app using the library component to local computer using File > Save
          as > This computer. Rename the downloaded file to have a .zip extension, and
          unzip the package. Open the Properties.json file, and then search for the
          keyword "LibraryDependencies". You should see a matching library logical
          name.
          If you're consuming the solution, check that the canvas app has properly
          identified the component libraries as solution dependencies. If the solution
          doesn't properly identify the component libraries as solution dependencies, that
          means the app dependency to the component library link hasn't been created
          properly. In that case, check with the solution provider to resolve the issue.
          If you're the solution publisher, check that the component libraries are saved
          with the library logical name in the solution, and that it's same as the one
          referenced in the component library .msapp package.
        Solution export always exports the latest version of the component library. Hence,
        always update the apps with the latest component version before exporting them
        through solutions. This action ensures that the apps have the same component
        version as available in the latest version of the component library. Apps and library
        are considered to be synchronized with each other when they're moved to a target
        environment for the first time; and hence, you're not prompted for any update
        being available when editing the app.
      See also
        Canvas components
        Component library
        Map input fields of a component
        Add multimedia to a component
        Behavior formulas for components
        Power Apps component framework
        Add canvas components to a custom page in a model-driven app
       Map input fields of a component
       Article • 01/24/2023
       A component can receive input values to emit or process data using custom input
       properties. In this article, you'll learn about working with such components expecting
       one or more input properties with a specific schema for the given table or record, and
       how to map the component input fields to the columns of the data source.
          Tip
         To learn about what the custom input and output properties in components are,
         see Custom properties in components.
       Map columns
       Use the RenameColumns() function to rename one or more columns of a table to match
       the input property schema for input column selection.
       For example, consider a component that expects a table input with the following format:
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
        Flavor           UnitPrice     QuantitySold
        Strawberry       1.99          20
        Chocolate        2.99          45
       The input property expects table data type:
       The schema of the input property looks like the following formula:
         Power Fx
         Table({Flavor: "Strawberry",UnitPrice: 1.99, QuantitySold:20})
       The app consuming this component has the following IceCreams table that doesn’t
       match with the component schema:
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
        FlavorName         Price     SaleNumber
        Strawberry         1.99      20
        Chocolate          2.99      45
       To map the correct fields, use RenameColumn() function to rename expected columns.
         Power Fx
         RenameColumns(IceCreams,"cra56_flavorname","Flavor","cra56_price","UnitPrice
         ","cra56_salenumber","QuantitySold")
       The input fields that the component expects are now mapped with the matching
       columns from the data source.
       Map records
       Use With() function to map a single record.
       For example, continuing from the earlier example for mapping columns, the custom
       input property of a component inside an app expects a record type with the following
       schema:
         Power Fx
         {Flavor: "Strawberry",UnitPrice: 1.99, QuantitySold: 20}
       Since the IceCreams data source expects column names as FlavorName, Price, and
       SaleNumber, we'll need to change the mapping for the record once the component is
       added to the app.
       Use With() function to select the columns of the IceCreams table, and map them to the
       input fields of the component:
         Power Fx
         With(Gallery3.Selected,
         {Flavor:FlavorName,UnitPrice:Price,QuantitySold:SaleNumber})
       The following animation shows the example of a component added to the app that
       shows the selected record from the gallery (above the component):
       Map tables
       Use ForAll() function to map a table of records with the records expected by the
       component added to the app.
       For example, at the end of the map columns example, you can use the ForAll() function
       to map the entire table with the specific columns to point to the fields from the
       component for each row:
         Power Fx
         ForAll(IceCreams,
         {Flavor:FlavorName,UnitPrice:Price,QuantitySold:SaleNumber})
      Map using dropdown (deprecated)
      You can use the Advanced tab for a component added to an app that expects input
      property of table or record type, and select the field mappings using the dropdown
      option. This mapping is assigned by default, and unless you manually select the
      appropriate mapping fields, the mapping might not yield expected results.
      For example, the following animation shows the formula being updated to rename
      columns. The component on screen doesn't change the field mapping since the default
      field selection using this dropdown needs to be updated manually.
      This method of selecting the mapping using the dropdown has been deprecated.
      Instead, use the column, record, or table mapping methods as described earlier in this
      article.
      You can still use the dropdown option to choose mapping for existing apps, though not
      recommended. For new apps, this option will be unavailable by default. To turn this
      deprecated capability on or off, go to Settings > Upcoming features > Retired, and
      choose Allow automatic field assignment for component inputs.
              When turning the setting on, ensure you save and reopen the app in Power Apps Studio.
              Once reopened, update the input property formula to trigger formula validation so that
              the dropdown options start to appear in the Advanced properties pane.
              See also
                    Behavior formulas for components
                    Deprecated: Map component fields using dropdown option
                    Canvas components
                    Component library
                    Component library application lifecycle management (ALM)
                    Add multimedia to a component
                    Behavior formulas for components
                    Power Apps component framework
                    Add canvas components to a custom page in a model-driven app
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Add multimedia to a component
       Article • 01/24/2023
       You can add multimedia files to the components inside a library. These components can
       then be used by all apps in an environment and can be moved across environments
       using standard component application lifecycle management (ALM) through solutions in
       Microsoft Dataverse.
       To add multimedia to a component, use the same steps that you'd follow when adding
       multimedia files in a canvas app. More information: Using multimedia files in canvas
       apps
       After adding multimedia files to a component inside the component library, the files will
       appear under the media pane as they do for canvas apps:
       Media resources in a component library are defined at the library level, and not tied to
       individual components. Importing any component from the component library will
       import all media resources from the library to the app. However, you can remove the
       unused media when app customization is complete. More information: Remove unused
       media
         Tip
       Prefix the media resources in a component library with a unique namespace or
       library name so that those names don't conflict with existing resources in an app
       during import.
      During the component import to your app, if the component library multimedia has a
      resource with the same name as the multimedia that already exists inside your app, the
      import process adds an underscore ("_") and a random number to enforce name
      uniqueness.
      Example
      Consider that you created a component library with a slider image that uses an icon with
      an input property for the component named "value" to set it's X property.
      To reuse this multimedia component in your app, all you have to do is import the
      component, and link the component's input property with the value you'll supply from
      within the app.
      Start with importing the component to your app:
      After the import, you can insert a slider control, and set the imported component's value
      to the slider's value:
      When you play this app, the slider movement in the app would then move the imported
      slider component:
      See also
        Canvas components
        Component library
        Component library application lifecycle management (ALM)
        Behavior formulas for components
        Power Apps component framework
        Add canvas components to a custom page in a model-driven app
       Behavior formulas for components
       (experimental)
       Article • 01/24/2023
       [This article is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
        ） Important
        This is an experimental feature. For more information, see Experimental and
        preview features.
       Specify one or more behavior formulas that run when an event triggers a change in
       component instances.
       For example, set a component's OnReset property to one or more formulas that do
       initialization and clear input. Reset values when the Reset function runs on the
       component instances.
        ７ Note
        The feature to create custom behavioral properties is currently experimental.
        However, you can use the default OnReset property that is available on all
        components in your production environment.
       OnReset
       With a component master selected, select OnReset in the drop-down list of properties
       (on the left side of the formula bar), and then enter one or more formulas.
      To test OnReset, configure a control to reset the component. For example, set the
      OnSelect property of a button to this formula: Reset(ComponentName).
      Example - Reset timer
      In this time picker component, two variables are used to display the time _selectedHour
      and _selectedMinute. When the picker gets reset, these variables should be reset to a
      default value, say 12: 12.  The OnReset property for the component has the following
      formula: Set(_selectedHour,12); Set(_selectedMinute,12)
      To trigger reset, go to a screen and insert an instance of the component. Add a button
      and configure OnSelect of the button to call Reset(TimerComponent_instance) to
      trigger OnReset.
       Update OnReset using custom property
       Besides resetting a component instance from outside of the component, there's another
       method to trigger the OnReset from the inside. "Raise OnReset when value changes" is
       an option when creating a custom input property. It allows the value changes of this
       property to trigger OnReset of the component. This method is designed to set and reset
       the default value easily.
       Example
       The example above shows reviewing order numbers and updating the numbers. The
       numeric up and down component is used to increase or decrease number of orders.
       When selecting the gallery on the left, the default number of the numeric up and down
       component is reset to display the order number of the selected tool. Raise OnReset
       when value changes made it possible to reset the default value when the input changes.
       To do so, check Raise OnReset when value changes of the default input property.
       OnReset of the component is set to Set(_numericValue,'Numeric up
       down'.DefaultValue). _numericValue is the variable to store the value of the current
       order value. Set the Default of the text input control to If(IsBlank(_numericValue),
       'Numeric up down'.DefaultValue, _numericValue).
       See also
          Canvas components
          Component library
          Component library application lifecycle management (ALM)
          Behavior formulas for components
          Power Apps component framework
          Add canvas components to a custom page in a model-driven app
     Canvas component properties
     06/07/2025
     Canvas components let makers create different types of properties to pass values or logic
     between the component and the app that hosts the component. Properties are essential for
     building interactive, reusable components.
     Prerequisites
     This feature is on by default for new apps. For existing apps, you need to turn it on in your app
     settings.
       1. Open your canvas app for editing in Power Apps Studio. On the command bar, select
        Settings > Updates.
       2. On the New tab, find and turn on the Enhanced component properties setting.
     Types of properties
     There are four types of properties available to makers.
       1. Data properties: Data properties pertain to data, like a color or text value. A Data property
        can be set to be Input or Output, which indicates if the component provides data to the
        app (Output) or the app provides data to the component (Input). Data properties are the
        only properties that participate in app data flow.
       2. Function properties: Function properties are related to logic, such as performing a
        calculation based on specific parameters or altering text. A Function property can be set
        to be Input or Output, which indicates if the component provides a function the app can
        call (Output), or the app provides a function the component can call (Input). Function
        properties do not participate in an app's data flow, and cannot use component or app
        variables.
       3. Action properties: Action properties are a type of property that deals with logic and
        behaves like an Output Function. Thus, the component has the logic defined, and that
        logic can use chained expressions and manipulate collections or variables ("behavior").
        For example, a Clear() Action property could provide functionality the app can call to
        clear out some values in the component, or a Save() Action property that updates a
        datasource.
       4. Event properties: Event properties are a category of property that involves logic and
        functions as an Input Function. Thus, the app defines the logic, which the component can
        call and that logic can use chained expressions and manipulate collections or variables
         ("behavior"). Typically these properties' names reflect an event such as OnSelect or
         OnChanged.
      Data property
      A data property's usage is easy to imagine. Standard controls in apps typically have several
      data properties, to set default values, text color, size, etc. Let's look at a simple example where
      you want to make properties of a control within the component available to the hosting app. In
      this example, the component is named Component1. Put a slider control inside the component.
      Add an Input property to specify the color from the consuming app, and an Output property
      so the component can tell the app the current value of the slider. This example assumes the
      component has a Slider control named Slider.
        1. In the property pane of the component, select New custom property.
        2. On the New custom property pane, enter display name Slider Color.
        3. Select Property type of Data and select Property definition value Input.
        4. Finally, from the Data type dropdown, select Color.
        5. Click Create.
      Next, select the Slider1 Slider control. Find its ValueFill property and in the formula bar, enter
      Component1.SliderColor. Component1 is the name of the component, and SliderColor is the
      name of the property you added.
      Now the component has a SliderColor property that can be set in the consuming app to pass
      a color into the component and set the slider's ValueFill property.
      You might also want to provide the value of the slider to the consuming app. To do this, add an
      Output property.
        1. In the property pane of the component, select New custom property.
        2. On the New custom property pane, enter display name Slider Value.
        3. Select Property type of Data and select Property definition value Output.
        4. Finally, from the Data type dropdown, select Number.
        5. Click Create.
      When a Data property is Output, the component provides the value to the consuming app. To
      set the formula, set the new SliderValue property in the component to the Value property of
      the slider.
        1. In the property pane of the component, click on the Slider Value property.
        2. In the formula bar, replace the default value of 100 with the following formula:
         Slider1.Value.
      Now the component's SliderValue property reflects the value of the slider inside the
      component, which the consuming app can read.
      Function property
      A function property contains an expression that returns a value. Typically, the function takes
      arguments that it uses to calculate the value to return.
       ７ Note
       Function properties currently cannot access variables or component values and properties,
       and cannot trigger data flow. Any required values have to be passed in as arguments.
      An Output function is a simple way to create a custom function for Power Apps. The
      component defines an Output function with an expression that takes some arguments and
      returns a value. This function can then be used in an app using the component's name (say
      Component1) by calling Component1.MyFunction(arg1, arg2).
      An Input function lets a consuming app provide logic to a component, similar to a function
      pointer or callback function. For example, if the component works with people's names, it can
      have an input function with arguments firstname and lastname and expects a string back. The
      app can define the function expression to return $"{firstname} {lastname}" or $"{lastname},
      {firstname}". The component calls the function the app maker provides and uses the returned
      string.
      Action property
      Action properties are similar to function properties of type Output, but they allow side-effect
      formulas and expression chaining. A component can have an action property named AddRecord
      that lets the app add a record to a collection inside the component, or a Reset action that
      clears variables or collections inside the component.
      In the earlier slider example for the Data property, you can add an action property called
      ResetValue to set the slider back to its default value. Use the formula Reset( Slider1 ) for
      this. Now, instances of the component in the app can call Component1.ResetValue() to set the
      slider back to the default value.
      Event property
     Many standard controls have common Event-type properties, which are input behavior
     function properties. OnSelect on the button control is a common example. A component can
     define event properties and call these events like a function. For example, a component with a
     button control can have an event property named OnButtonClicked. In the button control's
     OnSelect, the component can call its Component1.OnButtonClicked() property. A consuming
     app can define its own logic for this property to act when the button inside the component is
     pressed.
     Default values for properties or arguments
     Default values give an argument or property a value if none is set. This doesn't make sense for
     some types of properties. In some cases, you can use default values to show the expected
     schema for a record. By providing a default record, you set the record type as the expected
     schema.
     For example, an Action property named AddRecord takes a record to add to a local collection.
     To show the schema of the expected record, add a default value for the AddRecord property's
     argument.
     Overview of creating performant apps
     06/27/2025
     Creating performant Power Apps ensures your apps run efficiently and providing a better user
     experience. This article explains key patterns, anti-patterns to avoid, and design principles to
     help you build high-performing Power Apps for your organization.
        App patterns and Power Apps productivity gain: Power Apps makes it easier to build
        enterprise-grade apps by using established app patterns. Patterns are groups of Power
        Apps elements that work together, like data sources, collections, controls, Power
        Automate, and pages. Power Apps includes key performant patterns by default, so low-
        code developers quickly build functional enterprise apps. Deployment and administration
        tasks are also straightforward. With Power Apps, your team is more productive because
        many elements don't need your attention.
        Power Apps steers towards performant patterns: Power Apps guides you toward well
        known performant patterns by default. These patterns include streamlined data loading at
        launch, automatic incremental paging, caching data for collections, and loading only
        essential data for each page. These proven patterns work well for data-heavy enterprise
        apps. Many successful Power Apps implementations use more than 100 tables and over
        50 screens while keeping excellent performance.
        Falling into anti-patterns: When you build an app on any development platform, you risk
        making it perform poorly because of anti-patterns. These patterns can cause slow
        loading, slow page transitions, and make it hard to update or get data. Common anti-
        patterns include loading too much data, turning everything into collections, and
        overloading OnStart. People often use these patterns to work around real or perceived
        Power Apps limitations. Even with guidance, you might still use a bad pattern and end up
        with a slow app.
     Key performance design principles
     When building your app, consider these key performance principles to ensure it runs efficiently.
     These principles cover most aspects needed to enhance your app's speed. Some performance
     suggestions might appear in multiple sections due to their interrelated nature.
        Optimize page loads: Optimize your apps for app and page load speed. Minimize, delay,
        or eliminate actions that prevent fast app or page load.
        Small data payloads: Keep the amount of data that is bulk retrieved small.
        Optimize query data patterns: Do data mashups on the server, not in your app.
        Fast calculations: Work with Power Fx, not against it.
         For a deeper understanding, also see Execution phases of a Power App article.
         Additional performance guidance
         Other performance considerations can affect your app. For more information, see these articles:
              Other performance considerations: Discusses other factors that might affect performance.
              Build large complex apps: Lists key factors to consider when building a large app.
              Canvas app coding standards and guidelines  : Lists general coding and development
              guidelines that help you build an app.
          Use Monitor to get insights and
          recommendations for your app
               Summarize this article for me
          ﾃ
          Monitor in Power Apps offers insights and recommendations to enhance app performance. It
          provides makers with detailed information on their app's performance and actionable steps to
          improve their apps.
          Prerequisites
          To use this feature, your administrator must enable certain analytics and monitoring settings in
          the Power Platform Admin Center. For more information, see Monitoring experiences for
          makers. When you sign in to Power Apps and open Monitor, make sure you’ve selected the
          correct environment and that you’re a member of that environment with an assigned role (for
          example, Basic User). Otherwise, you won’t be able to access Monitor.
          Open and pin Monitor
             1. Sign in to Power Apps    .
             2. On the left navigation, select Apps.
             3. On the command bar, select Monitor.
             4. On the left navigation pane, select the     pin button next to Monitor.
          Use Monitor
          The Monitor page displays metric cards at the top, highlighting the top three underperforming
          apps for each metric. If all apps perform well on a specific metric, the card doesn't list any apps.
          Use the tabs under the cards to switch between viewing your model-driven, canvas, and code
          apps.
                                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
            Metric         Definition                                       Available     Available       Available
                                                                            for Canvas    for Model-      for Code
                                                                            apps          driven apps     apps
            App open       Indicates the percentage of app launch           Yes           Yes             Yes
            success rate   attempts that successfully allowed end-users
                           to access the app. This metric is calculated
                           once every 24 hours.
            App session    The number of distinct user sessions in an app   Yes           Yes             Yes
            count          in one day. A session begins when a user
                           opens the app and ends after a period of
                           inactivity or when the app is closed.
            Time to        Measures the time end-users wait to access       Yes           No              Yes
            interactive    the first screen of an app. It doesn't include
            (TTI)          the time users wait to see all data presented
                           on the first screen, such as filling in rows of a
                           gallery. This metric is calculated every 24
                           hours and is measured using percentiles, with
                           the 75th percentile being reported.
            Time to full   Measures the time end-users wait to see all      Yes           No              No
            load (TTFL)    data displayed on the first screen of an app. In
                           the app launch lifecycle, this metric follows the
                           Time to interactive phase. This metric is
                           calculated every 24 hours and is measured
                           using percentiles, with the 75th percentile
                           being reported.
            Data           A percentage that describes how often data       Yes           No              No
            request        requests coming from an app are successful
            success rate
            Metric          Definition                                          Available      Available       Available
                                                                                for Canvas     for Model-      for Code
                                                                                apps           driven apps     apps
            Data            The average time (in seconds) it takes for all      Yes            No              No
            request         data requests made by the app to complete
            latency         during a session.
            Row             The time (in seconds) that end users spend on       No             Yes             No
            summary         the expanded AI row summary of a main form.
            dwell time
           View metrics and recommendations for an app
           When you select an app on the Monitor page, a side pane opens and displays more data for
           each metric, including a data chart for the last 30 days.
               1. On Monitor page, select an app.
               2. To view recommendations for an app, select the app’s name to open the side panel. The
                 chart shows a callout with a recommended action for improving the metric.
              ） Important
              Recommendations are only available in Managed Environments. Contact your admin to
              enable Managed Environments for access to recommendations.
            Last updated on 03/05/2026
         Analyze system-generated logs using
         Application Insights
         Article • 04/09/2025
         Connect your canvas apps to Application Insights, which is a feature of Azure Monitor.
         Application Insights includes analytics tools that help diagnose issues and understand user
         behavior in apps. Use the collected information to make better business decisions and improve
         app quality.
         Prerequisites
              You need access to the Azure portal   .
              You need permission to create Azure resources.
           ７ Note
           To view telemetry information, your tenant admin needs to enable Canvas app insights.
           Sign in as an admin at the Power Platform admin center    . Select Settings > Tenant
           settings > Canvas app insights. In the Canvas app insights pane, turn the toggle On and
           save your changes. Learn more in Tenant settings.
         Create an Application Insights resource
         Send system-generated logs from an app by creating an Application Insights resource to store
         events.
         Learn how to create a workspace-based resource for Application Insights in the Azure portal.
         Connect your app to Application Insights
           ７ Note
                 When you specify a connection string, remember that data can be sent across
                 tenants. Trace events are sent to the App Insights resource that corresponds to the
                 connection string you set for your app, even if the target App Insights instance is in a
                 different tenant than the app.
                 Be cautious when importing existing .msapp files because connection strings for App
                 Insights might be present. Manually open the app after import to check that the
                 correct App Insights connection string is used.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Open an app to edit it.
            3. Select the App object in the left navigation tree view, and paste the Connection string
              from your Application Insights resource.
            4. Save and Publish your app.
            5. Play the published app and browse the different screens.
         When you browse the app screens, events are automatically logged to Application Insights.
         These include usage details like:
              Where users access the app from
              Which devices users use
              The types of browsers users use
            ） Important
            Play the published app to send events to Application Insights. Events don't send to
            Application Insights when you preview the app in Power Apps Studio.
         View events in Application Insights
             1. Sign in to the Azure portal   and open the Application Insights resource you created
               previously.
             2. In the left navigation pane, select Users under the Usage section.
                  ７ Note
                  The Users view shows app usage details, such as:
                       Number of users who viewed the app
                       Number of user sessions
                       Number of events logged
                       Users' operating systems and browser version details
                       Users' region and location
                  Learn more about users, sessions, and events analysis in Application Insights.
             3. Select a user session to view specific details, such as session length and screens visited.
             4. In the left navigation pane, select Events under the Usage section. You can view a
               summary of all the screens viewed across all app sessions.
       Tip
      Explore more Application Insights features, such as:
         Funnels
         Cohorts
         Impact analysis
         Retention analysis
         Usage flows
     Create custom trace events
     Write custom traces to Application Insights to analyze information specific to your app. The
     Trace function allows you to collect:
        Detailed usage information for controls on the screens
        Which specific users are accessing your app
        What errors occur
     Tracing helps you diagnose issues by sending a trail of information as users browse your app
     and take actions. Trace messages sent to Application Insights have one of three severities:
        Information
        Warning
        Error
         Send a trace message with the appropriate severity based on the situation. You can query the
         data and take specific actions based on the severity.
            ７ Note
            If you are logging any personal data, be aware of your obligations with respect to various
            privacy laws and regulations. Refer to the Microsoft Trust Center   and the Service Trust
            Portal   for more information.
         Create a component in your app to collect feedback on each screen and log events to
         Application Insights.
            1. Sign in to Power Apps   .
            2. Select Apps in the left navigation pane. From the list of apps, select the Kudos app, and
               then select Edit.
                 ７ Note
                 You can also create a new app or edit an existing app instead.
            3. Select Components in the Tree view:
      4. Select New component, then resize the width to 200 and the height to 75:
      5. Select Insert from the menu and then select Icons to add Emoji - Frown and Emoji - Smile:
      6. Select New custom property to create a custom property:
      7. Enter the property Name and Display name (for example, FeedbackScreen).
      8. Enter a property Description.
      9. Select Property type as Input and Data type as Screen:
        ７ Note
        An input property lets you capture the screen name and its component to log this
        information to Application Insights.
     10. Select the component in the Tree view, select More actions (…), and select Rename to
       give the component a meaningful name, such as FeedbackComponent.
      11. Select the icons, select More actions (…), and then select Rename to rename the icons
        with meaningful names, such as FrownIcon and SmileIcon.
      12. Select FrownIcon, select the OnSelect property, and enter the following expression in the
        formula bar:
          Power Fx
          Trace(
             "App Feedback",
             TraceSeverity.Information,
                 {
                   UserName: User().FullName,
                   UserEmail: User().Email,
                   Screen: FeedbackComponent.FeedbackScreen.Name,
                   FeedbackValue: "-1"
                 }
               );
          Notify("Thanks for your feedback!");
          ７ Note
          The formula sends UserName, UserEmail, Screen, and Feedback (with the value -1) to
          Application Insights.
      13. Select SmileIcon, select the OnSelect property, and then enter the following expression in
        the formula bar:
          Power Fx
          Trace(
             "App Feedback",
             TraceSeverity.Information,
                 {
                   UserName: User().FullName,
                   UserEmail: User().Email,
                   Screen: FeedbackComponent.FeedbackScreen.Name,
                   FeebackValue: "1"
                 }
               );
          Notify("Thanks for your feedback!");
      14. Add the component to one of the screens in your app:
     15. Select Save and then select Publish to save and publish your app.
     16. Play the published app and send smile or frown feedback from its screens.
        ） Important
        You must play the published app to send events to Application Insights. Events are
        not sent to Application Insights when you preview the app in Power Apps Studio.
          Analyze custom data in Application Insights
          You can now begin to analyze the data you sent using the Trace function from your app in
          Application Insights.
             1. Sign in to the Azure portal   and open the application insights resource you created
               earlier.
             2. Select Logs under Monitoring in the left navigation pane.
       3. Enter the following query and select Run to view the feedback from your app:
          Kusto
          traces
          | where message == "App Feedback"
          | order by timestamp
       4. Select a row in the results and expand the customDimensions field.
        The values for Screen, UserName, UserEmail, and FeedbackValue for the OnSelect event
        of the smile or frown icon in your component are recorded. Values are also recorded for
        each event sent to Application Insights, such as the appId, appName, and appSessionId.
       5. Use the following example query to extend the properties of the JSON custom
        dimensions and project the columns in the results view.
          Kusto
          traces
              | extend customdims = parse_json(customDimensions)
              | where message == "App Feedback"
              | project timestamp
                  , message
                  , AppName = customdims.['ms-appName']
                  , AppId = customdims.['ms-appId']
                  , FeedbackFrom = customdims.UserEmail
                  , Screen = customdims.Screen
                  , FeedbackValue = customdims.FeedbackValue
              | order by timestamp desc
            Tip
           Log queries are powerful. Use them to join multiple tables, aggregate large amounts
           of data, and run complex operations. Learn more about log queries.
      Analyze app lifecycle data in Application Insights
      The session summary event is logged once per session and contains information on app open
      success, app open optimal vs non-optimal sessions, and app open performance metrics.
      Limits
      These events are accurate for canvas apps running in a web browser. They aren't available for
      apps running in Power Apps mobile, and their values might not always be available or accurate
      for custom pages.
      Here is an example query showing how to access the session summary event and all available
      fields:
        Kusto
        customEvents 
        | where name == "PowerAppsClient.PublishedApp.SessionLoadSummary" 
        // 
        | extend cd = parse_json(customDimensions) 
        // 
        | extend sessionSummary = parse_json(tostring(cd["ms-sessionSummary"])) 
            | extend successfulAppLaunch = tobool(sessionSummary["successfulAppLaunch"]) 
            | extend unsuccessfulReason = tostring(sessionSummary["unsuccessfulReason"]) 
            | extend appLoadResult = tostring(sessionSummary["appLoadResult"]) 
            | extend appLoadNonOptimalReason = 
            tostring(sessionSummary["appLoadNonOptimalReason"]) 
            // 
            | extend timeToAppInteractive = todouble(sessionSummary["timeToAppInteractive"]) 
            | extend timeToAppFullLoad = todouble(sessionSummary["timeToAppFullLoad"]) 
            // 
            | project 
                timestamp, 
                session_Id, 
                successfulAppLaunch, 
                unsuccessfulReason, 
                appLoadResult, 
                appLoadNonOptimalReason, 
                timeToAppInteractive, 
                timeToAppFullLoad 
            | limit 5 
         The following fields help measure app open success and latency of performance markers tied
         to end-user experiences.
                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
           Field                       Description
           successfulAppLaunch         Boolean value indicating whether the session successfully launched the
                                       app
           unsuccessfulReason          If the session failed to launch the app, this indicates the reason / error. This
                                       field will be an empty string if the session was successful.
           appLoadResult               Indicates if the session was optimal or not. Possible values: optimal, other
           appLoadNonOptimalReason     If the session was not optimal, this indicates the reason. Possible values:
                                       interaction-required, throttled, screen-navigated-away, other
           timeToAppInteractive        Duration in milliseconds for the app session to reach an interactive state. In
                                       this state, users can start to interact with the first screen, but data may not
                                       be fully loaded.
           timeToAppFullLoad           Duration in milliseconds for the app session to reach a fully loaded state,
                                       where all data requests for the first screen have finished loading.
         Sample queries
         App Open Success rates
       This query will show the app open success rate by day. This can be used to evaluate spikes or
       trends in issues that users may be experiencing
         Kusto
         customEvents 
         | where name == "PowerAppsClient.PublishedApp.SessionLoadSummary" 
         | extend cd = parse_json(customDimensions) 
         | extend sessionSummary = parse_json(tostring(cd["ms-sessionSummary"])) 
         | extend successfulAppLaunch = tobool(sessionSummary["successfulAppLaunch"]) 
         | summarize 
         sessions_total = dcount(session_Id), 
         sessions_success = dcountif(session_Id, successfulAppLaunch == true) 
         by bin(timestamp, 1d) 
         | extend successRate =  
         100.0 * (todouble(sessions_success) / todouble(sessions_total)) 
         | project timestamp, successRate 
         | render timechart
       Count of Unsuccessful Sessions by Reason
       This query will show counts of unsuccessful sessions by reason / error. This can be used to
       debug app open failures or evaluate trends in issues that users may be experiencing.
         Kusto
         customEvents 
         | where name == "PowerAppsClient.PublishedApp.SessionLoadSummary" 
         | extend cd = parse_json(customDimensions) 
         | extend sessionSummary = parse_json(tostring(cd["ms-sessionSummary"])) 
         | extend successfulAppLaunch = tobool(sessionSummary["successfulAppLaunch"]) 
         | extend unsuccessfulReason = tostring(sessionSummary["unsuccessfulReason"]) 
         | where successfulAppLaunch == false 
         | summarize 
         count() 
         by unsuccessfulReason, bin(timestamp, 1d) 
         | render timechart
       App Open Performance
       This query will show app open performance metrics by day. This can be used to evaluate
       performance trends over time or after making changes. We recommend:
         1. Using the 75th percentile of the timeToAppInteractive and timeToAppFullLoad fields to
           avoid noise caused by outliers.
         2. Filtering to only optimal sessions to avoid noise in the data caused by expected cases like
           sessions with user interaction, sessions where the app was loaded in a background tab,
           etc.
         Kusto
         customEvents 
         | where name == "PowerAppsClient.PublishedApp.SessionLoadSummary" 
         | extend cd = parse_json(customDimensions) 
         | extend sessionSummary = parse_json(tostring(cd["ms-sessionSummary"])) 
         | extend appLoadResult = tostring(sessionSummary["appLoadResult"]) 
         | extend timeToAppInteractive = todouble(sessionSummary["timeToAppInteractive"]) 
         | extend timeToAppFullLoad = todouble(sessionSummary["timeToAppFullLoad"]) 
         | where appLoadResult == "optimal" 
         | summarize 
         percentile(timeToAppInteractive, 75), 
         percentile(timeToAppFullLoad, 75) 
         by bin(timestamp, 1d) 
         | render timechart
       App Load State on HTTP Calls
       There is a new request header x-ms-app-load-state that indicates if an HTTP call contributed to
       app startup. Specifically, this can be used to determine which HTTP calls impacted the
       timeToAppFullLoad above.
       The header can be one of two values:
                                                                ﾉ
                                                                   Expand table
        Value     Description
        TTFL      indicates that the request contributed to timeToAppFullLoad
        PostTTFL  indicates that the request did not contribute to timeToAppFullLoad
       Here is an example query showing how to access the header value and projecting it in the
       appLoadState column:
         Kusto
         dependencies 
         | extend cd = parse_json(customDimensions) 
         | extend requestHeaders = parse_json(tostring(cd["requestHeaders"])) 
         | extend appLoadState = tostring(requestHeaders["x-ms-app-load-state"]) 
         | project timestamp, session_Id, appLoadState, name, duration 
         | limit 5
     Count of HTTP calls contributing to Full Load
     This query will show the average count of HTTP calls that are contributing to
     timeToAppFullLoad by day. This can be used to evaluate the number of calls the app is making
     at startup that may be contributing to poor performance.
       Kusto
       dependencies 
       | extend cd = parse_json(customDimensions) 
       | extend requestHeaders = parse_json(tostring(cd["requestHeaders"])) 
       | extend appLoadState = tostring(requestHeaders["x-ms-app-load-state"]) 
       | where appLoadState == "TTFL" 
       | summarize httpCalls = count() by session_Id, bin(timestamp, 1d) 
       | summarize avg(httpCalls) by timestamp 
       | render timechart
     Duration of HTTP calls contributing to Full Load
     This query will show the total duration of HTTP calls that are contributing to
     timeToAppFullLoad by day. This can be used to evaluate the overall impact of HTTP calls to app
     startup performance.
       Kusto
       dependencies 
       | extend cd = parse_json(customDimensions) 
       | extend requestHeaders = parse_json(tostring(cd["requestHeaders"])) 
       | extend appLoadState = tostring(requestHeaders["x-ms-app-load-state"]) 
       | where appLoadState == "TTFL" 
       | summarize httpCallDuration = sum(duration) by session_Id, bin(timestamp, 1d) 
       | summarize percentile(httpCallDuration, 80) by timestamp 
       | render timechart
     Duration of HTTP calls contributing to Full Load by URL
     Similar to above, this query will show the count and duration of HTTP calls contributing to
     timeToAppFulLoad by URL. This can be used to identify specific slow HTTP calls that are
     impacting app startup performance.
       Kusto
       dependencies 
       | extend cd = parse_json(customDimensions) 
       | extend requestHeaders = parse_json(tostring(cd["requestHeaders"])) 
       | extend appLoadState = tostring(requestHeaders["x-ms-app-load-state"]) 
        | where appLoadState == "TTFL" 
        | summarize 
        count(), percentile(duration, 80) by name
      Monitor unhandled errors (experimental)
      [This section contains pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
        ） Important
           This is an experimental feature.
           Experimental features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
           functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers
           can get early access and provide feedback.
      You can't always anticipate or plan for every error that might occur while your app runs.
      Unhandled Power Fx formula errors are reported to users as banner messages. They can also
      be reported to Application Insights to show their frequency and severity without relying on
      your app's users to report issues. You can also set up real-time alerts when runtime errors
      occur to take a more proactive approach.
      Enable error passing to Application Insights
      Enable the setting that lets Power Apps pass unhandled runtime errors to Azure Application
      Insights.
        ２ Warning
        Enabling the Pass errors to Azure Application Insights setting might incur additional
        costs for storing Application Insights logs.
        1. Open the canvas app for editing.
        2. Select Settings > Updates > Experimental, and turn on Pass errors to Azure Application
          Insights.
        3. Save and then publish your app.
      Error events in Application Insights
     Unhandled Power Fx errors that users encounter at app runtime are reported to the traces
     table. Unhandled errors can be identified and distinguished from other error events by the
     event message "Unhandled error." The "severityLevel" dimension of these events is 3
     (TraceSeverity.Error).
     Detailed error messages are provided in the "errors" dimension of the customDimension
     property. In situations where multiple errors occurred during the same operation, the errors are
     consolidated in the "errors" dimension of a single trace event. The error messages match those
     reported in Monitor during a live debug session.
     This example query identifies unhandled errors and expands all error messages in the trace
     event:
       Kusto
       traces
           | where message == "Unhandled error"
           | extend customdims = parse_json(customDimensions)
           | extend errors = parse_json(tostring(customdims.['errors']))
           | mv-expand errors
           | project timestamp
               , itemId //unique identifier for the trace event
               , AppName = customdims.['ms-appName']
               , AppId = customdims.['ms-appId']
               , errors = errors.['Message']
           | order by timestamp desc
     Correlation tracing (experimental)
     [This section contains pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]
       ） Important
          This is an experimental feature.
                  Experimental features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted
                  functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers
                  can get early access and provide feedback.
          Connecting to external data and services is essential for most apps. Correlation tracing
          generates and propagates context information to link system-generated logs across a canvas
          app and its connections, subject to certain limitations. For example, your app might call a
          custom connector that then calls an Azure Function or another REST API. Correlation tracing
          allows you to correlate actions taken in the app with the underlying API calls across tiers. This is
          useful for troubleshooting.
          Canvas app correlation tracing implements context tracing and follows the W3C
          specification  .
          Enable correlation tracing
            ２ Warning
            Enabling this setting might incur additional costs related to storing Application Insights
            logs.
             1. To enable correlation tracing, open your cavas app for editing.
             2. Select Settings > Udates > Experimental > and turn on Enable Azure Application
               Insights correlation tracing.
             3. Save and publish the app.
          Limitations
       Correlation tracing works only with custom connectors. Other connector types aren't
       supported.
       HTTP requests are captured in Application Insights only if the connected service is also
       connected to Application Insights.
    Using correlation tracing
    When enabled, correlation tracing adds a new system-generated log event in the
    dependencies table of the canvas app's Application Insights instance. This event is recorded at
    the time a response from a network call is received. Dependency events capture details of the
    network call, including the request and response headers, response status code, and duration
    of the call.
    If the connected service is also connected to Application Insights, an additional system-
    generated log event capturing the request is generated in the requests table of the service's
    Application Insights instance. Some Azure services, such as Azure Functions, can be connected
    without any coding from the Azure portal. Both the canvas app or multiple apps and
    connected services can be connected to the same Application Insights instance.
     Join network calls for supported connectors with other system-generated logs on the
     "operation_Id" dimension. The following query shows a network call alongside trace events
     emitted during an app session.
       Kusto
       traces | union dependencies | union requests | union pageViews | union 
       customEvents
       | project timestamp
           , itemType
           , name
           , operation_Name
           , message
           , severityLevel
           , customDimensions
           , operation_Id
           , operation_ParentId
       | where operation_Id == "0a7729e3e83c4e4d93cb4f51149f73b9" //placeholder 
       operation_Id, replace
       | order by timestamp asc
          Export data to Power BI
          You can export your Application Insights data and query results to Power BI for analysis and
          data presentation.
             1. Sign in to the Azure portal   and open the Application Insights resource you set up
               earlier.
             2. Select Logs under Monitoring in the left navigation pane.
             3. In the log analytics query window, select the Export menu.
             4. Select Export to Power BI (M query) to download a Power BI query file.
             5. Open the downloaded file in a text editor, and copy the query to the clipboard.
             6. Open Power BI.
             7. Select Get Data in the Home ribbon, and then select Blank query.
      8. In the query window, select Advanced Editor, paste the query into the window, select
       Done, and then select Close & Apply.
     Create charts and visualizations in Power BI to represent feedback from your app and make
     data-driven decisions.
     Default Trace event context and dimensions
         Default dimensions are added to the customDimensions property on each Trace event. These
         dimensions identify the application and application sessions where the events occur. If you log
         additional custom data using the Trace function, it also appears in the custom dimensions.
                                                                                      ﾉ Expand table
          Dimension Name      Represents
          ms-appId            The Application ID of the app that sent the event.
          ms-appname          The Application name of the app that sent the event.
          ms-appSessionId     The application session ID. This value might not be populated in some scenarios.
                              When available, this value overrides the standard Application Insights sessionID
                              dimension.
          ms-tenantID         The unique identifier of the tenant where the application is published.
          ms-environmentId    The name of the environment where the application is published.
          userId              A unique identifier for the user associated with the session.
          ms-duration         An imputed value measuring the time it takes for a user to navigate from one
                              screen to another. This value overrides the standard Application Insights PageView
                              duration dimension.
          sessionId           A session ID that can be used to correlate all events associated with a single
                              application session. This value is always present and is recommended for
                              understanding unique session count. This value is taken from the player's session
                              ID and is shown when viewing the session details while playing the app. Session ID
                              might sometimes get a default, random, unique Application Insights-generated
                              value. This default value isn't reliable and doesn't correlate with any app-specific
                              parameters.
          Duration            An imputed value measuring the time it takes for a user to navigate from one
                              screen to another. This value matches the duration reported by the ms-duration
                              dimension.
          ms-isTest           Indicates whether the session is associated with the Test Studio test runner.
          ms-                 The name of the page the user navigates from (available for page navigation
          currentScreenName   events).
          ms-                 The name of the page a user is navigating to (present for page navigation events).
          targetScreenName
         Unsupported scenarios
         Application Insights doesn't support these scenarios.
       Offline player events aren't recorded.
       Events from mobile apps (iOS and Android) aren't recorded when the app is suspended.
       Understand canvas app execution
       phases, data call flow, and performance
       monitoring
       Article • 12/12/2023
       When a user opens a canvas app, the app goes through several phases of execution
       before showing any user interface. While the app loads, it connects to different data
       sources—such as SharePoint, Microsoft Dataverse, SQL Server (on-premises), Azure SQL
       Database (online), Excel, and Oracle.
       In this article, you'll learn about these different phases of execution and how an app
       connects to data sources and about tools you can use to monitor performance.
       Execution phases in canvas apps
       A canvas app goes through the following phases of execution before showing the
       interface to a user:
         1. Authenticate the user: Prompts the first-time user to sign in with credentials for
          whatever connections the app needs. If that user opens the app again, that person
          might be prompted again, depending on the organization's security policies.
         2. Get metadata: Retrieves metadata, such as the version of the Power Apps platform
          on which the app runs and the sources from which it must retrieve data.
         3. Initialize the app: Performs any tasks specified in the OnStart property.
         4. Render the screens: Renders the first screen with controls that the app populates
          with data. If the user opens other screens, the app renders them by using the same
          process.
       Data call flow in canvas apps
       Data calls from canvas apps send data to tabular data sources by using connectors over
       the OData protocol.OData requests flow to back-end layers to reach out to the target
       data source and retrieve data for the client, or commit data to the data source. Action
       based connectors that enable APIs work in the same way.
       Understanding how OData and API requests travel in canvas apps can help you to
       optimize your canvas app performance and your back-end data sources.
      In this section, you'll learn about how the data call flows in canvas apps with different
      data source types.
      Data call flow with online data sources
      The following diagram shows how a typical data request in a canvas app (on the left
      side) travels server-side layers, reaches out to the target data source (on the right side),
      and then returns the data to the client.
      Each layer in the preceding diagram can perform quickly or encounter some overhead
      while processing the request. In many apps, two particular spots commonly present
      noticeable overhead:
        Back-end data source while processing the request.
        Client while sending the request—or while manipulating the received data on the
        heap memory and executing the associated JavaScript functions to process data to
        show in screens.
      Data call flow with on-premises data gateway
      If a canvas app connects to an on-premises data source like SQL Server, you need to
      have another layer called an on-premises data gateway. This gateway is mandatory for
      accessing on-premises data sources. It takes charge of converting OData protocol
      requests to SQL Data Manipulation Language (DML) statements.
      The following diagram shows where and how the on-premises data gateway is put in
      place to process data requests.
      If the app uses a data source on-premises, the location and the specification of the data
      gateway also affect the performance of data calls.
      Data call flow with Microsoft Dataverse
      When you use Microsoft Dataverse as the data source, data requests go to the
      environment instance directly—without passing through Azure API Management.
      Because of this, the performance of data calls is faster compared to the rest of the data
      sources. The app is by default connected to Microsoft Dataverse when you create a new
      canvas app.
      With the understanding of this high-level concept of how data calls travel, you can get
      into the details of reviewing the performance of your app. In summary, performance
      overhead can happen at any of the layers—from client, API Management, connector,
      on-premises data gateway, or back-end data sources.
      Measuring performance
      Power Apps Monitoring tool
      While you can use the browser's developer tools to see performance, Power Apps
      subsets the set of calls in the Monitoring tool to just those that are Power Apps.
      The Power Apps monitoring tool can help you track what is actually sent to the data
      source and timestamps for when requests are sent and responses come from the server.
      You can learn more about the monitoring tool in this article: Debugging canvas apps
      with Monitor .
       Measuring memory pressure on the client
       To see memory consumption graphically, you can use the developer tools for your
       browser to profile memory. It helps you visualize heap size, documents, nodes, and
       listeners. Profile the app's performance by using a browser, as described in Microsoft
       Edge (Chromium) Developer Tools overview. Check the scenarios that exceed the
       memory threshold of the JS heap. More information: Fix memory problems
       Next steps
       Small data payloads
       See also
       Troubleshooting issues for Power Apps
        Small data payloads - limit the amount
        of data you get
        Article • 12/12/2023
        One of the most important patterns for enterprise data apps is to limit the size of the
        data you fetch into Power Apps. If the data payloads are small, nearly everything else
        gets easier. The Gallery and Table controls do this for you automatically when you
        connect directly to the data source in the Items property. For instance, when connected
        directly to a remote data source, a Gallery control pages in data in small increments, for
        example, 100 records. This default leverages the fact that an end user rarely really needs
        more than a hundred records for a user task.
        Use delegation
        One key way to keep data payloads small is to rely on the data source to do work for
        you before it gets to Power Apps. Delegation is when Power Fx can translate a Power Fx
        expression into a query expression that a data source such as Dataverse, SQL Server,
        SharePoint, and Excel can handle on its own. And, then Power Fx delegates that query,
        or gives the responsibility of doing the query work, the data mashup, to the data source.
        The data source produces the correct data and returns it to Power Apps.
        When the data source is bound directly to a gallery or table, then the data is paged or
        handed back the data to Power Apps in small performant increments of 100 records.
        Different data sources have different capabilities. Dataverse, for example, has many
        more capabilities to filter data on the server than Excel. A good example is CountRows
        and CountIf. Dataverse supports CountRows in a limited way. Dataverse calculates the
        size of the table periodically and keep that value around. When CountRows is called,
        you're given that value. That way it doesn't have to perform a full table scan to get the
        exact number for every CountRows call. But Dataverse also supports an exact count with
        CountIf up to 50,000 rows. It supplies these two different capabilities as a way to help
        preserve good performance of Dataverse server. In contrast, SharePoint doesn't support
        this function. So, a Power Fx expression with CountRows or CountIf for SharePoint isn't
        delegated. Instead, Power Apps downloads a limited number of rows, 500 – 2000. Power
        Fx works on the 500/2000 records locally and returns a result. If your data is always less
        than 500/2000 records this approach can work. But if it's greater than 500/2000 records
        you might get incorrect results.
        Avoid too many columns
      By default, Power Apps computes the actual columns you need for a given query using a
      feature call Explicit Column Selection. This feature is on by default for all new apps. To
      turn on the explicit column selection feature on the canvas app, go to Settings >
      Upcoming features > Preview> turn on Explicit column selection toggle.
      Suggestions
      To achieve the goal of a small data payload, consider the following questions and
      suggestions:
        1. Aim for the default query for a gallery or table to only return approximately 100 –
         200 records. If you use a delegable query, this happens automatically. If you're
         querying an API, or other source that doesn't support delegation, use parameters
         to refine the results.
            Consider using a data source based view that automatically filters the data.
            Most enterprise-grade apps make heavy use of views on the data source.
            Consider using default lookup or filter values to scope the data.
            Consider requiring search arguments in the UI before you show data.
            Consider these questions about your app:
             What is necessary on a given screen by default?
             What data does the end user really need to take a given business action?
             Users generally don’t need thousands of records on an initial screen to
             accomplish a task.
        2. Start building your query for a gallery or table by using the delegation tables for
         your data source. Only choose the functions supported for your query. If your
         query isn't delegable, what can you do to make it delegable?
       Optimized query data patterns
       Article • 12/13/2023
       The simplest and fastest data query pattern is:
         1. A single table or view
         2. Prefiltered on the server to what you need
         3. Columns are indexed correctly for the expected queries
       When you design your app, you need to think about how to query the data quickly. The
       best way to query data is to use a single table or view that has all the information you
       need, and filter it on the server before you display it in your app. You also need to make
       sure that the columns you use to filter or sort the data are indexed properly. This makes
       your app faster and smoother.
       For example, suppose you have a gallery that shows a list of customers and their
       salespersons. If you store the customer and salesperson information in separate tables,
       you need to use lookups to get the salesperson name for each customer. This slows
       down your app because it needs to run many queries to the other table. A better way is
       to create a view that combines the customer and salesperson information in one table,
       and use that view as the data source for your gallery. Then your app only needs to run
       one query to get all the data it needs.
       There's a trade-off between query speed and data normalization. Data normalization
       means that you store the data only once, and avoid duplication. This helps to keep the
       data consistent and accurate. However, sometimes you need to duplicate some data to
       make the queries faster and easier. You need to balance these two goals in your app
       design and table structure. Otherwise your app will be slow and laggy because it needs
       to do numerous work to filter and join the data from different tables.
       Use server-side views
       Views are probably the most common tool to help balance these goals. They present a
       single table structure for queries, prefilter data for what you need in the query, and
       enable lookups and joins to other tables. Because the filters, lookups and joins for the
       view are computed on the server, both the payload and client-side compute are
       minimized.
       Avoid too many lookups on a gallery
       A gallery can display many records from a data source. But sometimes, you need to
       show additional information from another data source that is related to the original one.
       For example, you have a gallery that shows a list of customers, and you want to show
       the name of the salesperson who is assigned to each customer. The salesperson’s name
       is stored in a different data source than the customer’s information. To show the
       salesperson’s name, you need to use a lookup function that finds the matching record in
       the other data source. This expands the original table with the lookup values.
       However, expanding the table can be very slow if you have many records and many
       lookups. For each record in the gallery, the app needs to run a separate query to the
       other data source and get the lookup value. This means that the app may need to run
       many queries for each record, which can take a long time and affect the app
       performance. This anti-pattern is sometimes known as “N squared, (n^2)" or an "N+1"
       problem.
       Use StartsWith or Filter
       Power Fx provides several ways to search data. In general, use an expression that
       leverages an index like StartsWith or Filter instead of one that reads the entire table like
       In. The In operator is fine for in-memory collections or if the external data source table is
       very small.
       Consider duplicating data
       Sometimes data is slow to access in a query because it is stored in a different location or
       format. To make the query faster, you can copy the slow data and store it locally in a
       table that is fast and easy to query. However, this means that the local data may not be
       the most updated version of the original data. Then run another process to update the
       local data periodically. This process can be a Power Automate flow, a plugin, a stored
       procedure, or any other method that can move data from one place to another.
       The frequency requirement of updating the local data depends on your business needs.
       How fresh does the data need to be for your app? For example, suppose you work for
       Contoso, a company that sells bicycles. The list of available bicycles is stored in a
       Products database that you can access through an API in a custom connector. But say
       the API call is slow, and so you decide to copy the product data and store it locally in a
       table. Then you create a view that combines your table with other relevant data for your
       app. You also create a Power Automate flow that runs every day and updates your table
       with the latest product data from the API. Then your app can query the local data faster,
       and the data is only one day old at most.
      Duplicating data is a common type of technique in enterprise-grade applications to
      ensure good performance. You can use Dataverse plugins, stored procedures, or data
      movement to duplicate data into a single table that is optimized for querying. The key
      question is: how up to date must this data be? If you can afford some delay, you can use
      this technique to speed up your app.
      Suggestions
      To achieve this goal, consider the following questions and suggestions:
        1. How important is it for a customer to see the data value in a gallery or data grid?
         Would it be acceptable to first select a record and then show the data in a form?
        2. Can a view do the prework necessary to see data in the right format?
        3. Are you using an "IN" operator where a "StartsWith" will work?
        4. How current does your data need to be? Is there a data duplication strategy you
         can use to get your query to work over a single table by default?
        Optimize app or page load for peak
        performance
        Article • 01/05/2024
        One of the key factors that shape a user's perception of an app is how quickly it opens
        and becomes functional. Therefore, prioritizing this goal is crucial in building a
        performant app. To achieve optimal app performance, there's three main areas that
        require attention:
          1. Load data fast
          2. Efficient calculations
          3. Minimizing required resources
        Each of these areas has several common anti-patterns.
        Load data fast
        Follow these guidelines to achieve fast data loading apps.
        Avoid directly populating a collection with large amounts
        of data
        Sometimes authors use ClearCollect() to copy data from a server to a collection in their
        app. This practice is a work-around for delegation limitations in the source or because
        they plan to use collections in the app for other purposes. Using ClearCollect() can
        potentially increase the speed of the app when the collection is later utilized. However,
        it's important to exercise caution while implementing it. Using ClearCollect in this
        manner can lead to slower app load times or when navigating between pages.
        ClearCollect() must finish before you can see the data in a gallery or a table. This step
        can take a long time if there's lots of data or if you use this approach for too many data
        sources. Collections are best used for situations where the data is small and you need to
        do many calculations on the collection. For example, a good use of collections is an
        Online order basket. The customer may update and remove items several times before
        choosing to commit the order. Additionally, you may augment the collection with more
        data items like potential discounts, highlights, etc. Data that is 'read-only' should be
        accessed natively - without bringing it into a collection.
      Consider avoiding calling Power Automate to populate a
      collection
      This issue is a slight variation of the previous section. Sometimes authors also use Power
      Automate to populate their collection in Power Apps. There's approximately a 0.6-
      second performance cost to instantiate Power Automate. Power Automate must be
      independently launched each time it's called. It must allocate memory, get situated with
      the right components, and be ready to run. As with the above advice, one or two calls to
      Power Automate might not be an issue depending on your app. But, almost universally,
      the worst performing apps overuse this approach. The performance cost can add up
      quickly and ruin the performance of your app.
      Avoid using SaveData() and LoadData() as a full offline
      scenario
      Some authors use ClearCollect() and then SaveData() to store data for general purpose
      offline use. You can use SaveData() to save the collection to your device, and LoadData()
      to load it when you're offline. However, this approach isn't recommended for instances
      where there's a large amount of data or if the data is complex. It makes your app slower
      because it has to wait for ClearCollect() to finish before it can show the data. You should
      only use SaveData() and LoadData() for small and simple data scenarios such as
      preferences and short lists. A better way to work with large amounts of offline data is to
      use the Power Apps offline feature that works with Dataverse. This feature can handle
      larger and more complex data more efficiently.
      Use Explicit column selection
      Explicit column selection is on by default. However, some authors turn this feature off.
      The issue is that with Explicit column selection (ECS) turned on, columns are sometimes
      not retrieved from the data source if the data is first retrieved into a collection. As some
      tables may have many columns, ECS automatically computes which columns are
      necessary to retrieve based on their usage in controls (for example, galleries and forms.)
      As some tables can many columns, reducing the size of the download can speed up
      performance. Some tables can have a hundred columns or more. If your app only needs
      to use 10 columns, and you bring down all the columns from a 100 column table, you
      are bringing down ten times as much data as you actually need.
      Most issues arise when bringing data into collections. If a column is explicitly referenced
      in a control then ECS works well. And, ECS generally does work for collections. However,
      the column lineage is occasionally lost when the data moves through collections and
        variables. And, and so Power Apps may lose track of the column it should retrieve. To
        resolve this issue, you can force Power Apps to "remember" the column by using the
        ShowColumns function. For example:
         Power Fx
             ClearCollect(
                 MyColTable, 
                 ShowColumns(Filter(BankAccounts, AcountNo = 32),
                 "Col1", 
                 "Col2", 
                 "Col3")
             );
        Where Col1, Col2, and Col3 are columns you expect to be retrieved from the data
        source (for example, the Account data source).
        Alternatively, you can add a hidden control to your form that references the column.
        This forces Power Apps to "remember" the column.
        Fast calculations
        Fast (or efficient) calculations are a performance goal in its own right. For more
        information, see Fast (efficient) calculations. However there are some common anti-
        patterns that can affect app load as well and so we discuss them here. Below is a list of
        optimizations you should consider that might affect app launch or page navigation.
        Use App.Formulas
        Historically many authors have put a large number of calculations in OnStart. When you
        place an expression in OnStart, it forces Power Apps to run that expression precisely
        when the app starts and before everything else. However, with the introduction of
        App.Formulas you can let Power Apps decide when to run an expression. Power Apps
        can run the formula 'Just-in-time' before it's needed. For more information, see App
        formulas. Use App.Formulas to split up your formula into pieces that Power Apps can
        arrange more efficiently for execution.
        Use Concurrent
        Use the Concurrent function to allow formulas to be executed at the same time. It's
        common to use this function to populate collections as it allows for parallel execution.
       While this can provide some modest speed ups, adding many data sources can cause
       timing and throttling issues.
       Use Enhanced performance for hidden controls
       When enabled by default in all new apps created since December 2022, Power Apps
       doesn't render any control that isn't initially visible.
       Minimize required resources
       Minimize the resources required to launch your app or screen. This effort includes
       carefully scoping or partitioning the resources your app or screen needs. Below are
       several approaches to help you.
       Use a low dependency start screen and eliminate unused
       screens.
       Use a low-dependency first screen such as a welcome on your application. Create a
       screen that doesn't load a gallery or table or reference data. This manages the user's
       perception of speed and allow Power Fx to properly delay some calculations to later. If
       you have any unused screens, remove them.
       Keep cross screen dependencies between screens low
       Cross page references force the load of additional pages via references, for example,
       referencing controls on pages and putting into collections. Some references might be
       unavoidable. Centralize common references to a single page if possible so that only
       page is loaded.
       Consider embedded media
       Authors sometimes embed media in their apps to ensure fast loading. If you have
       embedded media consider whether or not, you're using it. If not, delete it. If you have
       embedded a .png file, consider substituting a .svg file which is smaller. Note that if you
       use a .svg, the font for the .svg must be on the client machine. Consider the embedded
       media resolution. Is it too high for the device it will used on?
       Don't forget App.StartScreen
              If you use App.StartScreen, ensure the first screen is a blank screen. Due to current
              packaging of the app, the first logical screen is always bundled with the app init logic
              and will get initialized, regardless of whether we ever navigate to it.
              Consider splitting up the app
              If your app is large, consider partitioning it into smaller apps. If the functionality is
              separate enough in different parts of your app, this approach might work. In this
              scenario, you create an actual separate app that you launch with parameters that
              include context from the first or parent app.
              Suggestions
              To achieve the goal of a fast app and page start, consider the following questions and
              suggestions:
                 1. Are you loading lots of data in a first screen? Can you use a different first screen?
                 2. Are you running many commands or Power Fx expressions at the beginning of the
                    app load? Can you defer these commands and expressions to a later point in the
                    application? Only get the data you actually need to start the app? 1 Can you
                    convert expressions in App.OnStart to named formulas with App.Formulas? This
                    allows Power Fx to decide when to actually execute the formula rather than forcing
                    it to happen on load or navigate events.
                 3. Can you use a separate Power Automate flow to create a temporary table in a local
                    data store such as Dataverse that combines data from different sources? And then
                    access that data in your Power App?
                 4. For business process kick offs, can you use Server triggered actions rather than
                    calling a Power Automate Flow?
                 5. Can you create a view on the server that joins the data for you?
                 6. If you want to use offline data in your app, can you use the Power Apps offline
                    feature that works with Dataverse? If your data isn't in Dataverse, can you move it
                    there?
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
         Fast calculations
         Article • 12/13/2023
         Power Fx expressions are powerful and do many background calculations for you
         automatically. While Power Fx automates many things for you, it's possible to fine-tune
         your calculations so there as fast as possible.
         Data retrieval
         Use Explicit column selection
         The Explicit Column Selection (ECS) feature is enabled by default for all new apps. If it
         isn't enabled for your app, you should enable it. ECS automatically reduces the number
         of columns retrieved to only the ones that are used in the application. If ECS isn't
         enabled, you might be retrieving more data than you need, which can affect
         performance. Occasionally, when an app pulls data in through collections, the original
         lineage or source of a column can be lost. We don't know if it’s being used and we drop
         it using ECS. You can usually force ECS to work for a missing column by using the
         PowerFx expression ShowColumns after a collection reference or by using it in a control.
         Use images on galleries, tables, and forms carefully
         Use Dataverse thumbnail versions of images for galleries and tables. Dataverse
         thumbnails are small about 1 kilobyte and are stored inline as part of the record, and are
         useful and fast for display on controls that show collections. All other image references
         including all SharePoint images require a separate call and shouldn't be placed on a
         gallery or table. Place images that require a separate call on detail forms. Consider never
         showing a full image by default. Full detailed images can be useful and important to
         users. However, you can make these images available to users through an explicit user
         action, for example, a button or navigation to a separate page. SharePoint has a range
         of intermediate sized images you can use for use on a form short of the full image.
         Dataverse only has two sizes: Thumbnail and Full.
         Calculations
         Split up formulas with App.formula
      The use of App.formulas and named formulas can help with the speed of app load and
      page navigation because it allows Power Fx to decide when to evaluate a formula. That
      means it doesn't have to necessarily evaluate it in OnStart. In addition, named formulas
      can generally help speed as well. In particular if you have a long script, breaking it up
      into named formulas allow for more efficient calculations as Power Fx can schedule the
      work and it enables reuse. For more information, see App formulas.
      Use Concurrent
      Use the Concurrent function to allow formulas to be executed at the same time.
      Carefully choose where concurrent is used. It can provide some modest speed ups but if
      you're running items that depend on each other it can cause timing and throttling
      issues.
      Defer significant updates to a nonblocking UI step
      Large updates to a data source may take a while to complete. But users expect the UI to
      return control to them quickly. Tasks may be either sequential where the update must
      finish before the user can take another actions or asynchronous (the update can finish
      separate of user actions.)
      An example of a time-consuming synchronous task is confirming a seat at a concert. For
      most time-consuming synchronous tasks like this, it’s common to put up a progress bar.
      This UI actually blocks the user but ensures that the task is complete before other UI
      elements are updated. This approach may not work for your application. Businesses
      normally handle longer sequential steps as an explicit business step. You're approved to
      go the next step via a business process signal. An example is an approval. An approval
      may come quickly or may be delayed. In the UI you can signal that the process is
      complete several ways. You can enable a button, show a message, send e-mail, or
      enable a part of the UI such as a menu item.
      An example of an asynchronous task is the completion of an order. A customer updates
      an order basket, works through their order and then places the order. But several
      updates must happen before the customer is given a confirmed ship date. In this
      example, the Ship Date isn't something you can easily provide right away. , you can
      defer this part of the update to an e-mail that is sent to the customer later.
      For synchronous tasks, you'll often use the code in Power Apps for UI blocking tasks. For
      instance, the code waits until it gets a return value and then releases the progress bar. It
      is best to minimize these types of situations. But for tasks that use an explicit business
         step or asynchronous tasks it's common to use an external service to complete the task
         such as a Dataverse action, stored procedure, or a Power Automate flow.
         Place 'ForAll' appropriately
         If you have an expression with ForAll and collect that looks like this:
          Power Fx
           ForAll(x, Collect(y, { … }))
         Then, invert this to
          Power Fx
           Collect(y, ForAll(x, { … }))
         In the first pattern, any dependent rule on collection y is notified of changes and
         evaluated for each iteration of x. In the second pattern, these rules are only evaluated
         once.
         Consider avoiding references to Gallery.AllItems
         When working with Power Apps, it’s best to avoid referencing Gallery.AllItems unless
         you need out user values. This is because every time AllItems is read, a new output table
         is generated. Instead, use Gallery.AllItemsCount if you just want to know how many
         items are loaded.
         Carefully use Gallery.TemplateSize
         To ensure that flexible-height galleries are rendered correctly, it’s important to set a
         reasonable default size. Initially, we try to render as many rows as possible based on this
         value. If you set the default size to 0, we try to render everything, except for a few edge
         cases. If you’re using a formula, make sure to set a minimum value for when the formula
         might evaluate to 0. For example, you could use Max (20, varFoo + rectBar.Height). This
         way, if varFoo and rectBar.Height aren’t yet available, we at least use a reasonable value
         of 20.
         Note DelayOutput especially for search
              There's one second delay before the changes is detected, which allows you to complete
              the typing instead of detecting the changes for every typing.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
         Other performance considerations
         Article • 12/11/2024
         In addition to the four key performance principles, there are several other possible
         reasons for poor performance typically due to external factors.
         Consider the differences in Client browsers,
         devices, and locations
         Canvas apps can be used on different devices, browsers, and locations with varying
         network conditions. As the Power Apps client is executed, be sure to use modern,
         updated, and supported browsers. The performance of an app might vary when loading
         large sets of data on different platforms like iOS or Android. This variation happens
         because of different network request limitations on each platform. For example, the
         number of concurrent network requests allowed differs by platform. These differences
         can have a major impact act on the data load time for large datasets.
         Consider the differences in Geographic location
         of the on-premises data gateway and
         environment
         Users can access canvas apps globally. However, we recommend that you locate the
         data source near most of your users. For example, when your app accesses your on-
         premises data gateway, it’s best to place the gateway near the users who is accessing
         the app most frequently.
         General Server-side issues
         Poor performance might be caused by problems at the server source of the data. This
         can happen for various reasons. You can use the monitoring tool to assess the specific
         issue by measuring the data call timings.
         Possible bottlenecks issues in the data source
         There are many possible causes of bottlenecks in the data source. Usually, a few tables
         in the data source are at the center of activity for many queries. Queries might be slow
         if:
           The data source is missing or has incorrect indexes.
           The query is joining extra-ordinary large amounts of data on the server.
           The query requires a table SCAN, for example, In operator instead of using an
           index like StartsWith.
           The back-end machine hosting the data source is low on resources.
           The back-end SQL instance has blockings, deadlocks, or resource contention.
           The on-premises data gateway is unhealthy.
           The on-premises data gateway should be scaled out.
        When these problems occur, tune the back-end data source to avoid slowing the app’s
        performance.
        Specific data sources
        Azure SQL Database
        It's important to select the right tier for your business requirements. For more
        information, see Azure SQL Database documentation. A lower tier has some limitations
        and constraints. From a performance perspective, CPU, I/O throughput, and latency are
        important. Therefore, we recommend that you check the performance of the SQL
        database periodically, and check whether resource usage exceeds the threshold. For
        example, on-premises SQL Server normally sets the threshold of CPU usage to around
        75 percent.
        SharePoint
        The SharePoint connector can be used to create apps that use data from SharePoint
        Lists. Here are some common performance problems and resolutions for SharePoint:
        Avoid too many dynamic lookup columns: SharePoint supports various data types,
        including dynamic lookups such as Person, Group, and Calculated. If a list defines too
        many dynamic columns, it takes more time to manipulate these dynamic columns within
        SharePoint before returning data to the client running the canvas app. To avoid this,
        don’t overuse the dynamic lookup columns in SharePoint. For example, use static
        columns to keep email aliases or people’s names.
        Carefully use the picture column and attachment: The size of an image and an
        attached file can contribute to a slow response while retrieving to the client. Review your
        list, and ensure that only necessary columns have been defined. The number of columns
        in the list affects the performance of the data requests. This is because the matched
        records, or the records up to the defined data row limits, are retrieved and transmitted
      back to the client with all the columns defined in the list—even if the app doesn’t use all
      of them.
      Consider breaking up large lists: If you have a large list with hundreds of thousands of
      records, consider partitioning the list or splitting it into several lists based on parameters
      such as categories, or date and time. For instance, your data might be stored in different
      lists on a yearly or monthly basis. In such a case, you can design the app to let a user
      select a time window and retrieve the data within that range.
      Dataverse
      When you use Microsoft Dataverse as the data source, data requests go directly to the
      environment instance without passing through Azure API Management. So, it tends to
      be faster than other data sources. For more information, see Data call flow when
      connecting to Microsoft Dataverse.
      Check custom table configurations: If custom tables are used in Dataverse, additional
      security configuration might be required for users to view the records with canvas apps.
      For more information, see Security concepts in Dataverse, Configure user security to
      resources in an environment, and Security roles and privileges.
      Excel
      The Excel connector allows a canvas app to connect to a table in an Excel file. However,
      this connector has limitations compared to other data sources. For example, it restricts
      the canvas app to loading data from the table only up to 2,000 records due to limited
      delegable functions. To load more than 2,000 records, partition your data in different
      data tables as other data sources.
      Use the new Excel connector: Be sure to use the new Excel connector - Excel business
      online. It allows for multi-user access and handles contention issues better.
      Only use the columns you need from large data lists in Excel: An app can perform
      slowly if the Excel file that has too many data tables or data tables that contain an
      immense amount of data over several columns. To ensure that your app isn’t affected by
      this problem, define only the columns you need on the data table in an Excel file.
      Note the limitations of Excel as a database. Excel isn’t a relational database system :
      Any changes from an app are managed by Excel in the same way as if a user were
      changing data in an Excel file directly. If the app has a high number of reads, but fewer
      update operations, it might perform well. However, if the app requires heavy
      transactions, it can adversely affect the performance of the app. There’s no specific
             threshold value for the number of transactions. It also depends on the data being
             manipulated. Several other aspects also affect the app’s performance, such as network
             overhead or the user’s device.
             Consider the differences in geographic location: The geographic location of the data
             and its distance from customer locations can be a performance issue. This issue can be
             amplified if a mobile client has limited bandwidth.
             Enable Preload app for enhanced performance
             You can optionally preload your app to increase performance.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps  .
                2. On the left navigation pane, select Apps.
                3. Select the app and then select Settings on the command bar.
                4. In the App settings pance, set the Preload app for enhanced performance to Yes.
                  The app will then pre-load.
                5. For the changes to take effect for apps embedded in Teams, remove and add your
                  app into Teams again.
                    ７ Note
                    This makes the compiled app assets accessible via unauthenticated endpoints
                    to enable loading them before authentication. However, users can still only
                    use your app to access data via connectors only after authentication and
                    authorization completes. This behavior ensures that the data an app retrieves
                    from data sources won’t be available to unauthorized users. Compiled app
                    assets include a collection of JavaScript files containing text authored in app
                    controls (such as PCF controls), media assets (such as images), the app name,
                    and the environment URL the app resides in.
                    In general, apps should retrieve media and information from data sources,
                    through connections. If media and information must be added to the app,
                    without coming from a connection, and it is considered sensitive you may
                    want to disable this setting. Note, disabling this setting will result in users
                    waiting a bit longer to access an app.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Build large and complex canvas apps
       Article • 04/11/2023
       Most of the articles in this section of the documentation cover the runtime performance
       of apps as experienced by the people who use them. This article covers app
       performance as experienced by the people who make them.
       As apps become larger and more complex, Power Apps Studio needs to load and
       manage larger numbers of controls, formulas, and data sources, all with
       interdependencies that grow exponentially. Power Apps Studio can take longer to load,
       and features such as IntelliSense and color coding can lag. Use the recommendations
       that follow to better work with large and complex apps in Power Apps Studio. They can
       also help to improve your apps' runtime performance.
       The examples in this article use the Hospital Emergency Response sample solution.
       Use App.Formulas instead of App.OnStart
          Tip
         You can use With function and canvas component custom output properties as an
         alternative to named formulas.
       The best way to reduce loading time for both Power Apps Studio and your app is to
       replace variable and collection initialization in App.OnStart with named formulas in
       App.Formulas.
       Let's look at the following example, which uses App.OnStart.
         Power Fx
         // Get the color of text on a dark background.
         Set(varColorOnDark,RGBA(0, 0, 0, 1));
         // Get the color of the menu icons.
         Set(varColorMenuIcon,"#0070a9");
         // Get the styles for a form.
         Set(varFormStyle,
             {
                 DataCard: { Height: 50 },
                 Title: { Height: 50, Size: 21, Color: varColorOnDark },
                 Control: { Height: 50, Size: 18 },
                 Label: { Size: 18, Color: varColorOnDark }
             }
         );
         ClearCollect(
             FacilitiesList,
             ForAll(
                 Facilities,
                 { Name: 'Facility Name', Id: Facility }
             )
         );
         If(
             Not IsBlank(Param("FacilityID")),
             Set(ParamFacility,
                 LookUp(
                     FacilitiesList,
                     Id = GUID(Param("FacilityID"))
                 ).Name
             );
         );
       Because they're a sequence of statements, your app must evaluate these Set and Collect
       calls in order before it can display the first screen, which makes the app load more
       slowly. And because the entire App.OnStart must be considered as a whole, order
       preserved, and errors aggregated before returning the final result, the formula is
       complex for Power Apps Studio to analyze.
       There's a better way. Use App.Formulas instead and define these variables and
       collections as named formulas, as in the following example.
         Power Fx
         // Get the color of text on a dark background.
         varColorOnDark = RGBA(0, 0, 0, 1);
         // Get the color of the menu icons.
         varColorMenuIcon = "#0070a9";
         // Get the styles for a form.
         varFormStyle = 
             {
                 DataCard: { Height: 50 },
                 Title: { Height: 50, Size: 21, Color: varColorOnDark },
                 Control: { Height: 50, Size: 18 },
                 Label: { Size: 18, Color: varColorOnDark }
             };
         FacilitiesList =
             ForAll(
                 Facilities,
                 { Name: 'Facility Name', Id: Facility }
             );
        ParamFacility = 
            If( Not IsBlank(Param("FacilityID")),
                LookUp(
                    FacilitiesList,
                    Id = GUID(Param("FacilityID"))
                ).Name,
                Blank()
            );
       This change may seem small, but it can have a huge impact. Because each named
       formula is independent of the others, Power Apps Studio can analyze them
       independently, effectively splitting a large App.OnStart into smaller pieces. We've seen
       Power Apps Studio load time drop by as much as 80% with this change alone.
       Your app also loads faster because it doesn't have to evaluate these formulas until it
       needs the result. The first screen of the app is displayed immediately.
       Named formulas can't be used in all situations because you can't modify them or use
       them with Set. Some situations require the use of a state variable that can be modified.
       Set is perfect for these situations and you should continue to use it. But, more often
       than not, you're using global variables in OnStart to set up static values that don't
       change. In those cases, a named formula is the better choice.
       Since named formulas are immutable, the prefix var (short for "variable") as a naming
       convention is no longer appropriate. We didn't change the names in this example
       because it would require changes to the rest of the app to match.
       It's tempting to place a named formula in App.OnStart, but don't. They don't belong
       there. As an On behavior property, App.OnStart evaluates each of its statements in
       order, creating global variables, and talking to databases only once, when the app is
       loaded. Named formulas are formulas that define how to calculate something whenever
       needed and are always true. It's this formula nature that allows them to be independent
       and allows the app to finish loading before they're evaluated.
       Split up long formulas
       App.OnStart is one of the worst offenders for long formulas and definitely where you
       should start, but it isn't the only case.
       Our studies have shown that nearly all apps with a long load time for Power Apps Studio
       have at least one formula of more than 256,000 characters. Some apps with the longest
       load times have formulas of more than 1 million characters. Formulas that long put a
       significant strain on Power Apps Studio.
        To make matters worse, copying and pasting a control with a long formula duplicates
        the formula in the control's properties without it being realized. Power Apps is modeled
        after Excel, where multiple copies of a formula are common. However, in Excel formulas
        are limited to one expression and are capped at 8,000 characters. Power Apps formulas
        can grow much longer with the introduction of imperative logic and the chaining
        operator (; or ;;, depending on locale).
        The general solution is to split long formulas into smaller parts and reuse the parts, as
        we did in the previous section when we changed Set/Collect statements in App.OnStart
        to named formulas in App.Formulas. In other programming languages, reusable parts
        are often referred to as subroutines or user-defined functions. You can think of named
        formulas as a simple form of user-defined function with no parameters or side-effects.
        Use named formulas everywhere
        In the earlier example, we used named formulas as a replacement for App.OnStart.
        However, you can use them to replace a calculation anywhere in an app.
        For example, one of the screens in the Hospital Emergency Response sample solution
        includes this logic in Screen.OnVisible:
         Power Fx
         ClearCollect(
             MySplashSelectionsCollection,
             {
                 MySystemCol: First(
                     Filter(
                         Regions,
                         Region = MyParamRegion
                     )
                 ).System.'System Name',
                 MyRegionCol: First(
                     Filter(
                         Regions,
                         Region = MyParamRegion
                     )
                 ).'Region Name',
                 MyFacilityCol: ParamFacility,
                   MyFacilityColID:  LookUp(
                     FacilitiesList,
                     Id = GUID(Param("FacilityID"))
                 ).Id
             }
         ); 
        This formula can be split into a set of named formulas. It also makes the formula easier
        to read.
          Power Fx
          MyRegion = LookUp(
                              Regions,
                              Region = MyParamRegion
                     );
          MyFacility = LookUp(
                              FacilitiesList,
                              Id = GUID(Param("FacilityID")
                      );
          MySplashSelectionsCollection = 
              {
                  MySystemCol: MyRegion.System.'System Name',
                  MyRegionCol: MyRegion.'Region Name',
                  MyFacilityCol: ParamFacility,
                  MyFacilityColID:  MyFacility.Id
              };
        We extracted ParamFacility as a named formula earlier when we moved most of the Set
        calls from App.OnStart to named formulas in App.Formulas.
        Named formulas are evaluated only when their values are needed. If the original intent
        of using Screen.OnVisible was to defer work until the screen is shown, then the work is
        still deferred as global named formulas in App.Formulas.
        Use the With function
        You can also use the With function in a formula to split up logic. Create a record in the
        first parameter with the values you want to use as fields, and then use those fields in the
        second parameter to calculate the return value from With. For example, the previous
        example can be written as just one named formula:
          Power Fx
          MySplashSelectionsCollection = 
              With( { MyRegion: LookUp(
                                      Regions,
                                      Region = MyParamRegion
                                ),
                      MyFacility: LookUp(
                                      FacilitiesList,
                                      Id = GUID(Param("FacilityID")
                                ) 
                     },
                     {
                          MySystemCol: MyRegion.System.'System Name',
                          MyRegionCol: MyRegion.'Region Name',
                          MyFacilityCol: ParamFacility,
                          MyFacilityColID:  MyFacility.Id
                     }
              )
         One downside to using With this way is that MyFacility can't use MyRegion because
         they're defined in the same With function, a problem that's not present with named
         formulas. One solution is to nest With functions and use the As keyword to name the
         record for each to give easy access to all the With variables.
         Use canvas components
         Canvas components are most often used to create a UI control that can be placed on
         the canvas just like a control. You can also use them without placing them in the UI to
         perform calculations with custom output properties as an alternative to named formulas.
         Canvas components are easy to share across apps with component libraries and, unlike
         named formulas, are fully supported. However, they're harder to configure and use than
         named formulas.
         To split logic:
           1. In Power Apps Studio, switch to the Components tab in the Tree view.
           2. Create a new component.
           3. In the Properties pane, turn on Access app scope.
           4. Add a custom property.
           5. Set the Property type to Output and the Data type as appropriate.
           6. Select Create.
           7. In the property picker next to the formula bar at the top of the screen, select the
            new property.
           8. Write the formula for the logic to split and reuse.
         To use the logic:
           1. Switch to the Screens tab in the Tree view.
           2. In the Insert pane, expand Custom and insert your component.
           3. To calculate a value with the property, use ComponentName.PropertyName.
         Use Select with a hidden control for imperative logic
       Imperative logic is used to modify state with Set and Collect, notify the user with Notify,
       navigate to another screen or app with Navigate and Launch, and write values to a
       database with Patch, SubmitForm, or RemoveIf.
       Named formulas and canvas component custom output properties don't support
       imperative logic. A common way to split up imperative logic is to use the OnSelect
       property of a hidden control.
         1. Add a Button control to a screen.
         2. Set the OnSelect property to the imperative logic you want to execute.
         3. Set the Visible property to false, since there's no need for the user to see or
          interact with it.
         4. Call Select( Button ) when you want to execute the imperative logic.
       For example, one of the screens in our sample has the following OnSelect property on a
       Button control. (This simple example is for illustration purposes only. Normally, you
       would only use this technique for longer formulas.)
         Power Fx
         btnAction_17.OnSelect = 
             Trace("Feedback Screen: Submit Button",TraceSeverity.Information);
             If(
                 // Proceed if all forms are validated.
                 And(
                     FormFeedback.Valid
                 ),
             
                 // Set the updates to static variables.
                 Set(updatesFeedback,Patch(Defaults('App Feedbacks'), 
         FormFeedback.Updates));
                 // Submit the first form. Subsequent actions can be found in the 
         OnSuccess.
                 SubmitForm(FormFeedback);
                 ,
             
                 Notify("Please complete all fields before proceeding",
                        NotificationType.Warning,2000)
             );
       To split this logic into parts, we can put portions onto separate Button controls and
       Select them from the original:
         Power Fx
         btnTrace.OnSelect = 
             Trace("Feedback Screen: Submit Button",TraceSeverity.Information);
         btnSubmit.OnSelect = 
             If(
                 // Proceed if all forms are validated.
                 And(
                     FormFeedback.Valid
                 ),
             
                 // Set the updates to static variables.
                 Set(updatesFeedback,Patch(Defaults('App Feedbacks'), 
         FormFeedback.Updates));
                 // Submit the first form. Subsequent actions can be found in 
         OnSuccess.
                 SubmitForm(FormFeedback);
                 ,
             
                 Notify("Please complete all fields before proceeding",
                        NotificationType.Warning,2000)
             );
         btnAction_17.OnSelect = 
             Select( btnTrace );
             Select( btnSubmit );
        This technique only works on the same screen. Other techniques that are slightly more
        complicated work across screens, like using the Toggle control, setting OnCheck to the
        logic you want to run, and setting Default to a global variable and then toggling the
        global variable with Set( global, true ); Set( global, false ) at the point you want
        to run the logic.
        In this example, some logic splitting had already been done. The comment mentions
        that "Subsequent actions can be found in OnSuccess." This event runs imperative logic
        after the record has been successfully submitted, a solution specific to the SubmitForm
        function.
        Partition the app
        Some apps grow to thousands of controls and hundreds of data sources, which slows
        Power Apps Studio. As with long formulas, large apps can be split into smaller sections
        that work together to create one user experience.
        Separate canvas apps
        One approach is to implement sections in separate canvas apps and use the Launch
        function to navigate between the separate apps and pass needed context.
       This approach was used in the Hospital Emergency Response sample solution. Separate
       apps manage each of the major areas of the overall app. The apps share a common
       switchboard component through a component library that each app shows on its
       startup screen:
       When the user selects an area, the component uses metadata about the apps available
       and which app is hosting the component. If the desired screen is in this app (that is,
       ThisItem.Screen is not blank), then a Navigate call is made. But if the desired screen is
       in a different app (that is, ThisItem.PowerAppID is not blank), then a Launch function is
       used with the App ID of the target and the FacilityID context:
         Power Fx
         If(
             IsBlank(ThisItem.Screen),
             If(IsBlank(ThisItem.PowerAppID), 
                 Launch(ThisItem.URL),           
                 Launch("/providers/Microsoft.PowerApps/apps/" & ThisItem.PowerAppID, 
                        "FacilityID", Home_Facility_DD.Selected.Id)
             ),
             Navigate(
                 ThisItem.Screen,
                 Fade
                    )
                );
              State in the original app is lost when another app is launched. Be sure to save any state
              before you call the Launch function. Write it to a database, call SaveData, or pass state
              to the target app with parameters that are read with the Param function.
              Model-driven app with custom pages
              Sections can also be implemented as custom pages. Custom pages act as a mini canvas
              app with a model-driven app container for navigation.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Build business logic
       Article • 10/22/2024
       Power Platform offers various capabilities for makers to build business logic for Power
       Apps. In this article, you find an overview of the key methods and offer guidance to help
       determine the most suitable approach building business logic for Power Apps.
       Use Power Fx in your app
       Power Fx is the low code functional programming language shared by Excel and Power
       Platform. When used with Power Platform connectors, makers can access data and
       create custom app logic. Power Fx supports the following characteristics:
          Live – Canvas apps recalculate just as Excel spreadsheets do. As users interact with
          the app, Power Fx is in the background making data requests and keeping the
          state of the app up to date with Dataverse.
          Delegation – Power Fx optimizes data handling by delegating operations to the
          server whenever possible. Functions like Filter(), Lookup(), and Search() enable
          server-side data filtering, ensuring that only the necessary data is retrieved to
          support the app's functionality and user experience. In cases where delegation isn't
          possible, functions run locally within the JavaScript environment of the browser.
          Optimized for Dataverse – Dataverse serves as the primary data storage option for
          Power Apps, offering direct, and low-latency access due to fewer intermediary
          layers. Power Fx is also compatible with Dataverse's diverse relationship types,
          including many-to-one and one-to-many associations.
          Offline – The Power Apps mobile app enables offline use of Dataverse data,
          allowing users to use the app in the field allowing a seamless connection. Any
          changes made offline are synchronized when internet connection is available. The
          app's predefined business logic remains operational, even without an internet
          connection.
       Use cloud flows in your app
       Power Automate is a low code workflow service built on top of the Power Platform
       connector ecosystem. Power Automate adds the following capabilities when building
       Power Apps:
         Asynchronous – A Power Automate cloud flow is inherently asynchronous. This
         means that when a flow is initiated, it's using a queuing system to manage the
         various subtasks. The asynchronous nature of Power Automate means makes it
         well-suited for longer running complex sequences of logic.
         Detailed logging – All flows create a record of what happened when they executed
         in the form of Run History providing traceability and ensuring auditing record for
         what happened and why.
         Multi-connector – Although it's possible to create multi-connector Power Apps
         logic, due to the live nature of Power Apps, as you increase the number of
         connectors performance degrades. These complex multi-connector scenarios are a
         great place to use Power Automate which can offload these cases from live
         execution in the app.
       Choose between Power Fx and cloud flows for
       your app
       We recommend using Power Fx for developing business logic in Power Apps. While it's a
       powerful tool, there are scenarios where integrating other tools might be more
       appropriate.
       Low latency use cases
       Power Fx excels in delivering low latency for Power Apps, making it the go to choice for
       developing responsive business logic. However, the actual latency experienced can vary
       based on the complexity of the operations and the volume of data being processed. It's
       crucial to understand that while Power Fx can facilitate swift interactions, the design, and
       objectives of your application play a pivotal role in its overall performance. For more
       information, see performance and optimization articles earlier in this section.
       When it comes to accessing data efficiently, the combination of Dataverse and Power Fx
       offers the quickest solution.
       For more information, see Data call flow with Microsoft Dataverse.
       Complex sequences and use of multiple connectors
       When dealing with complex sequences of action that span various connectors, Power
       Automate serves as an effective asynchronous solution to delegate processing away
              from Power Apps. This asynchronous capability lets Power Apps kick off a workflow and
              proceed with other tasks without having to pause for a response.
              Design app experience around inherent task
              latency
              When designing user experiences, it's essential to consider the latency that comes with
              executing complex tasks.
              There are two strategies:
                 1. Pause the user experience until the task finishes, providing a visual indicator of
                    progress.
                 2. Offload the complex task to Power Automate, allowing the user experience to
                    continue uninterrupted.
              Related content
              Overview of creating performant apps
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
         Power Apps coding guidelines
         ﾃ Summarize this article for me
         Creating a simple canvas app is straightforward, but as the application's complexity grows,
         maintaining high code quality becomes essential. These guidelines describe standards for
         naming objects, collections, and variables, and provide recommendations for developing
         consistent, performant, and easily maintainable apps.
         The guidelines offer essential guidance for developers who design, build, test, deploy, and
         maintain Power Apps apps in various environments, including small businesses, corporations,
         and government entities.
            Tip
           Use the Power CAT Toolkit   to perform code reviews. The toolkit incorporates many of
           the coding guidelines from this documentation, ensuring that your solutions are efficient
           and maintainable. The toolkit automatically flags any patterns that don't adhere to these
           best practices, so you can address potential issues early in the development process. This
           proactive approach enhances the quality of your code and helps streamline the review
           process, making it easier to maintain high standards across your projects. Integrating the
           Power CAT Toolkit into your development workflow ensures that your solutions are built
           on a solid foundation and leads to more reliable and scalable solutions.
         Next step
          App design guidelines
          Last updated on 02/28/2026
        Power Apps and Microsoft
        Teams integration
        Microsoft Teams provides a collaboration surface where makers can build, share, and use Power
        Apps experiences for teams, chats, and personal use.
        Power Apps can be used in five scenarios with Teams.
                                                                                          ﾉ
                                                                                             Expand table
         Scenario             Description
         Embed a canvas app   Use the Power Apps tab for Teams to embed a canvas app as a tab app in Teams.
         as a tab app         The canvas app integrates business data from a wide variety of Microsoft and third-
                              party data sources, including Dataverse.
         Embed a canvas app   Embed a canvas app as a first-class Teams personal app. The canvas app integrates
         as a personal app    business data from a wide variety of Microsoft and third-party data sources,
                              including Dataverse.
         Embed a model-       Use the Power Apps tab for Teams to embed a model-driven app as a tab app in
         driven app as a tab  Teams.
         app
         Embed a model-       Embed a model-driven app as a first-class Teams personal app.
         driven app as a
         personal app
         Create apps in       Use the Power Apps app in Teams to create canvas apps within Teams backed by
         Teams backed by      Dataverse for Teams, the built-in low-code data platform for Teams. Dataverse for
         Microsoft Dataverse  Teams empowers users to build custom apps, bots, and workflows—by using Power
         for Teams            Apps, Microsoft Copilot Studio, and Power Automate, respectively—without ever
                              leaving the Teams interface.
        Related articles
        What is Dataverse for Teams?
        Create your first app in Teams
        Set permission and share apps with colleagues
        Use flows in Microsoft Teams
        Microsoft Copilot Studio in Teams
        ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 05/22/2026
             Embed a canvas app as tab app in
             Teams
             Article • 01/30/2024
             You can customize the Teams experience by adding Power Apps canvas apps to your
             channels in Teams using the Power Apps tab. In this topic, you learn how to add the
             Product Showcase sample app template to a Teams channel, and then open the app
             from that channel.
             If you're not signed up for Power Apps, sign up for free   before you begin.
             Prerequisites
             To follow this procedure, you need an Office 365 subscription     and a channel in
             Teams .
             Sign in to Power Apps
            Sign into Power Apps at https://make.powerapps.com  .
            Add an app
               1. In Microsoft Teams, select a team, and a channel under that team. In this example,
                 it's the General channel under the Business Development team.
               2. Choose + to add a tab.
               3. In the Add a tab dialog box, choose Power Apps.
               4. Choose Sample app templates > Product Showcase > Save.
        The app is now available to use in the channel.
       ７ Note
       You must share your own apps before you add them to Teams (sample app
       templates are shared by default).
      Open an app
        1. In Microsoft Teams, choose the team and the channel that contains the app.
        2. Choose the Product Showcase tab.
         The app opens in the channel.
      Known issues
      In the desktop app for Microsoft Teams:
         Apps must load content such as images and .pdf files over a secure (https)
         connection.
         Not all sensors, such as Acceleration, Compass, and Location, are supported.
         Only these audio formats are supported: AAC, H264, OGG Vorbis, and WAV.
      In the mobile app for Microsoft Teams:
         End users can't download attachments from canvas apps. As a workaround, use
         Microsoft Teams desktop to access the canvas app and download the attachment.
       Clean up resources
       To remove the app from the channel, choose the Product Showcase tab > Remove.
        Embed a canvas app as personal app
        in Teams
        You can share an app you've created by embedding it directly into Microsoft Teams. When
        completed, users can select + to add your app to any of your team channels or conversations in
        the team you are in. The app appears as a tile under Tabs for your team.
          ７ Note
          The Teams experience changes frequently. If the current Teams UI or screenshots in this
          article don't match what you see, use the option names and overall flow as your guide.
          ７ Note
          Team custom app policies must be set to allow uploading custom apps. If you are unable to
          embed your app in Teams, check with your administrator to see if they've setup custom app
          settings.
        Prerequisites
             You need a valid Power Apps license.
             To embed an app into Teams, you need an existing app created using Power Apps.
        Add to Teams
           1. Sign in to Power Apps   , and then select Apps.
           2. Select More actions (...) for the app you want to share in Teams, and then select Add to
             Teams.
      Add to Teams panel opens on the right-side of the screen.
     3. (Optional) If the app doesn't have any description, select Edit details to open the app in
      Power Apps Studio to add.
     4. (Optional) Select Advanced settings to add additional details such as Name, Website, Terms
      of Use, Privacy Policy, MPN ID (Microsoft Partner Network ID).
     5. Select Add to Teams and you'll be asked to open Teams.
        Tip
       If you want, you can also choose Download app to download the app, and then use
       the steps described in Upload your app in Microsoft Teams article to upload the app
       to Teams.
     6. Select Open Microsoft Teams to open Teams app, or select Cancel followed by Use the web
      app instead to open Teams web.
            7. Select Add. You can also choose to add the app to a specific team using Add to team, or a
              specific chat using Add to chat.
              The app is now added to Teams.
                  Tip
                 You can also pin the app for easy access.
         Add to Teams using the web player
         You can also add canvas apps to Teams using the web player.
            1. Go to Power Apps      > Apps > select the app to launch in a new browser tab.
            2. Edit the app > select     or press F5 to play the app.
            3. After the app is open using the web player, choose the Add to Teams button from the top-
              right side of the screen.
            4. When prompted, select Cancel.
            5. Select Launch it now to open the Teams app. Alternatively, you can also choose Use the
              web app instead to open the app in Teams web.
           ７ Note
                 To add canvas apps to Teams using the web player:
           Your organization must have Allow interaction with custom apps turned on. More
           information: Manage custom app policies and settings in Microsoft Teams
           Your organization must allow Shared Power Apps. More information: Manage
           Microsoft Power Platform apps in the Microsoft Teams admin center
         You can only add apps to Teams that belong to the same tenant as your Teams
         account. Otherwise, you'll see an error "App was not found in tenant".
     Publish the app to the Teams catalog
     If you're an admin, you can also publish the app to the Microsoft Teams catalog.
     Use context from Teams
     To build deeply integrated apps with Teams, you can use Team's context variables with the
     Param() function. For example, use the following formula in screen's Fill property to change the
     background of app based on user's theme within Teams:
      Switch(
              Param("theme"),
              "dark",
              RGBA(
                  32,
                  31,
                  31,
                  1
              ),
              "contrast",
              RGBA(
                  0,
                  0,
                  0,
                  1
              ),
              RGBA(
                  243,
                  242,
                  241,
                  1
              )
          )
     To test the app, publish it and then play it within Teams.
      The following context variables from Teams are supported:
          locale
          channelId
          channelType
          chatId
          groupId (not supported with private channels)
          hostClientType
          subEntityId
          teamId
          teamType
          theme
          userTeamRole
        ７ Note
        This feature was added in March, 2020. If you embedded your app within Teams before this,
        you may need to re-add your app to Teams to use this functionality.
      Improve the performance of your app
      You can optionally preload your app within Teams to increase performance. For mor information:
      Enable Preload app for enhanced performance.
      See also
      Welcome to Microsoft Teams Manage your apps in Teams Publish your app in Teams
      ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
       Last updated on 05/22/2026
     Create apps in Microsoft Teams by using
     Power Apps
     09/03/2025
     With the significant number of enterprise employees working remotely, and millions of them
     meeting and collaborating through Microsoft Teams, there's significant interest in building low-
     code and no-code applications that can make remote work easier and more productive.
     Introducing Microsoft Dataverse for Teams (formerly called Project Oakdale), a built-in, low-
     code data platform for Teams that empowers you to build custom apps and workflows in
     Teams by using Power Apps and Power Automate. Dataverse for Teams, built on Microsoft
     Dataverse (formerly called Common Data Service), provides relational data storage, rich data
     types, enterprise-grade governance, and one-click solution deployment to the Teams app
     store.
     The new Power Apps app in Teams provides an integrated experience for app makers to create
     and edit apps and workflows within Teams, and quickly publish and share them for anyone on
     the team to use, without having to switch between multiple apps and services. With Power
     Apps Studio embedded in the Power Apps app in Teams and the new built-in data platform
     providing an easy-to-use, editable data table, you can quickly build apps based on custom
     data tables that are Teams-specific and scenario-specific.
     To help organizations realize value faster, you can use templates, which are purpose-built apps
     for common application patterns that can be easily discovered and installed by members of the
     team. Although these templates can work without modification, members of the team can
     customize and extend them to meet the specific needs of their business.
     Access and authorization align with the Microsoft Teams security model and include security
     groups that enable access for owners, members, and guests of the team that your app is
     associated with.
     Licensing requirements
     The ability to create apps within Microsoft Teams will be available as part of select Microsoft
     365 subscriptions. For detailed information, see Licensing and restrictions in the Power
     Platform admin guide.
     Get started with creating apps in Teams
     There are two ways to use the apps created by using Power Apps in Teams:
        You can use the Power Apps app from the default Teams catalog as a personal app and
        create apps to share with teams in Teams. More information: Install the Power Apps
        personal app
     When you create an app in Teams with the Power Apps app for the first time, or install an app
     created with Power Apps from the app catalog for the first time, a new Dataverse for Teams
     environment is created for the selected team. The Dataverse for Teams environment is used to
     store, manage, and share team-specific data, apps, flows, and chatbots. Each team can have
     one Dataverse for Teams environment, and all data, apps, and flows created with the Power
     Apps app inside a team are available from that environment. More information: About the
     Dataverse for Teams environment
     When you create an app in Teams with the Power Apps app for the first time, or install an app
     created with Power Apps from the app catalog for the first time, you get to choose which team
     is responsible for customizing, maintaining, and sharing the app.
     After selecting a team, we will create a new Dataverse for Teams environment if one doesn’t
     already exist. This will provide the necessary workspace for your team to collaborate on all your
     data, apps, flows, and bots. More information: About the Dataverse for Teams environment
     Get started with creating flows and chatbots in
     Teams
     You can create:
       Power Automate flows by using the new Power Apps app in Teams. More information:
       Create flows using the Power Apps app in Teams
       Chatbots by using the new Microsoft Copilot Studio app in Teams. More information:
       Microsoft Copilot Studio in Teams
    Next steps
    Install the Power Apps personal app
    Create your first app in Teams
    Related articles
    Administer Dataverse for Teams environment
       Install the Power Apps personal app in
       Microsoft Teams
       Article • 03/03/2023
       A personal app is a Teams application that has a personal scope. Power Apps is by
       default available for you to select and add to a tab in the Teams channel of your choice.
       More information: Personal apps
        1. Open Microsoft Teams, and then select More added apps (...).
        2. Search for Power Apps.
        3. Select Add.
            Power Apps is now added to Teams. You can access the app in Teams from the left pane.
                Tip
               As an alternative to using the flyout menu, you can select Apps from the lower-left
               corner in Teams, and then search for Power Apps to install the app.
            Pin Power Apps to Teams
            To easily access Power Apps app, right click the Power Apps app from     , and then
            select Pin.
      This action adds Power Apps to the Teams left rail for quick access.
      When you pin Power Apps app, the text of the app icon in the Teams rail changes from
      italicized to normal to reflect the pinned app.
      You can unpin Power Apps app anytime with a right click on the Power Apps app from
      the left rail, and then by selecting Unpin.
      Pop out app
            If you're using Microsoft Teams desktop app   , you can use the Pop up out option to
            open Power Apps in a separate window for ease of use.
            This way, you can continue to use Microsoft Teams for day-to-day interactions and still
            be able to interact with Power Apps separately.
            Next steps
            Create your first app in Teams 
            Overview of the Power Apps app
     Create your first app in Microsoft Teams
     You can create, edit, and delete canvas apps in Teams. If you're creating an app by using Power
     Apps in a Teams team for the first time, you also create a new Dataverse for Teams environment.
     For more information, see About the Dataverse for Teams environment.
     Prerequisites
        A Microsoft Teams license (included with most Microsoft 365 plans).
        Power Apps for Teams doesn't require a standalone Power Apps license. The capability is
        included with your Teams license for apps that use Dataverse for Teams.
        You must be a member of the team where you want to create the app.
      ７ Note
      The Teams user interface updates regularly. If the screenshots or steps in this article don't
      exactly match what you see, look for similar options in the current interface. The core
      workflow remains the same.
     Creating an app in Microsoft Teams is a quick and easy three-step process.
       1. Create your app
       2. Create your first table
       3. Customize and publish your app
     Watch this video to learn how to create your first app.
     https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=3e63d41c-d4eb-411e-b99a-
     7cc87bb2992d&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fcreate-first-app
     Ensure you refer to the latest steps when creating the table.
     Now let's go through each step in detail.
     Create your app
     After installing the Power Apps app template:
      1. Start Teams, and sign in.
      2. In the left pane, select Power Apps, and then select Start now.
                 Tip
                If you don't see the Power Apps app in the left pane, select      (More added apps), and
                then select Power Apps.
     3. Select a team where you want to create the app. This is where the app lives. Team members
      can't see the app until you publish the app. You can also share the app with colleagues
      within your company that are not part of the team. For more information, see Set
      permission and share apps with colleagues.
      If this is the first app you're creating in the selected team, a new Dataverse for Teams
      environment is created for the selected team. You see a message about this when you select
      the team. For more information, see About the Dataverse for Teams environment.
     4. Select Create. You see a confirmation about the Dataverse for Teams environment being
      created, which might take some time. You're notified when the environment is available for
      you to create your first app by using an email and a Teams notification.
       ７ Note
       Environment creation fails if the Teams team that you selected has Hiddenmembership
       enabled. If this happens, try creating the app in a different team. For more information,
       see Hidden membership groups.
     5. Enter an app name, and then select Save.
        Tip
       An app template is included with the app by default, so that you can get started with
       creating your table and using the app. For more information, see Understand Power
       Apps Studio.
    Create your first table
    Data for apps built in Teams lives in Dataverse for Teams environments as tables. Like other data
    experiences, you can add extra columns to track different attributes of each record before filling
    the table with multiple rows of data.
      Tip
     For more information about Dataverse for Teams tables, see Overview of Dataverse for
     Teams.
    To create your first table:
     1. Select With data.
     2. Select Create new table > Start with blank table.
     3. In the Create a table dialog box, select Edit table properties and type a meaningful name
      for your new table that describes this dataset, and then select Save.
     4. After the table is created, add columns of different types, add rows, and work with data in
      the visual editor.
    Add columns to the table
    To add a new column to track new data:
     1. Select New column.
     2. Enter a name that best describes your new column.
     3. Select the type for your column.
        Tip
       For more information about column types supported by the visual editor, go to
       Supported column types. To add columns that aren't supported by the visual editor,
       create a table by using the solution explorer. More information: Create tables
     4. If required, change Advanced options for the selected column type.
     5. Select Save.
     6. Repeat the previous steps to add the rest of the data columns.
    Add rows to the table
    Select Add row to add rows.
    Paste the copied data into the table
    You can paste up to 50 rows of data into a table. To create new rows from the copied data, add
    empty rows in the table first. Adding new empty rows ensures pasting data from clipboard
    doesn't accidentally overwrite your existing data.
     Ｕ Caution
     Paste operations are automatically saved, and there's no undo option. Use caution when
     pasting data over existing rows since this action overwrites your existing data in the table.
    To paste the data from clipboard into the table:
     1. Select the record that you want to add new records above or below.
     2. Select Insert row above, or Insert row below to insert rows before or after existing rows.
      For example, inserting row above the selected row:
     3. Repeat the preceding step to add more empty rows, as needed.
        Tip
       If you're unsure of how many rows you need, create additional empty rows before
       pasting data. You can delete extra empty rows later.
     4. Select the top-left cell from the newly created rows.
     5. Paste the copied data.
       ７ Note
       If you paste data when the cell is in edit mode (if you double-clicked top-left cell), the
       data is pasted inside the cell. If this problem happens, delete the incorrectly pasted
       data, select any other cell, select the top-left cell, and try to paste again.
     6. Remove any extra empty rows.
          Tip
         To delete multiple rows that are together, select the top row, and press the Shift key on
         the keyboard. Keep the key pressed, select the last row in the chunk of the rows that
         you want to delete. Then, select Delete X record(s).
     Changes to the table are automatically saved. However, check for errors, and fix them before you
     close the visual editor.
     Customize and publish your app
     When you close the table, the app template that you added to the app screen by default
     automatically refreshes to use the new table.
      ７ Note
     To add new data sources, such as a new table, or to reopen the app, see Manually connect
     data to the app for steps to manually refresh the app with the new data.
    Depending on the number of fields you add to your table, you might need to update the form
    and the gallery in the app template.
    Manually connect data to the app
    The gallery and the edit form components on the screen automatically refresh with the data only
    for the first data source. If you add extra data sources, such as a new table, or if you reopen the
    app, you need to manually connect the data to the template gallery and form.
      Tip
     Skip these steps if the app screen is already connected to the table that you created.
    To manually connect to the new data:
     1. Select the gallery, and then select the correct data source.
       2. Select the form, and then select the correct data source.
       3. If you see any formula error, select Edit in the formula bar, and update the formula with the
         data source name.
         For example, to change from using Instructions as the data source name for the edit form to
         Recipes, replace the name of the data source.
         Change from:
          Power Fx
          Remove(Instructions, selectedRecord); If(IsEmpty(Errors(Instructions, 
          selectedRecord)),UpdateContext( {itemSelected:false, editMode:false, 
          newMode:false, deleteMode:false}); Set(CurrentItem,First(Instructions)););
         Change to:
          Power Fx
          Remove(Recipes, selectedRecord); If(IsEmpty(Errors(Recipes, 
          selectedRecord)),UpdateContext( {itemSelected:false, editMode:false, 
          newMode:false, deleteMode:false}); Set(CurrentItem,First(Recipes)););
       4. Repeat the earlier step to fix any extra formula errors.
     Update background color for the selected gallery record
     The gallery shows records you created earlier. However, you need to change the background
     color for a record when you select it from the gallery to show the selection.
     To update the selected item background color:
       1. Select the gallery.
       2. Select TemplateFill property from the property drop-down on the top-left.
       3. Update the TemplateFill property value in the formula bar to the following formula:
          Power Fx
          If(ThisItem.IsSelected, RGBA(0,0,0,.05), RGBA(0,0,0,0))
     Update fields on the form
     The template shows two fields inside the form by default. To add more fields to the form:
       1. Select the form.
     2. Select Edit fields from the property pane on the right.
     3. Select Add fields.
     4. Select the fields that you want to add on the form.
     5. Select Add.
     6. (Optional) Select fields to move up or down, or remove unwanted fields by selecting
      Remove.
     7. Close the fields pane.
    When you add, remove, or reorder fields, the form updates automatically.
    Update fields in the gallery
    You might need to update the gallery on the default app template to reflect the fields from the
    table you created.
    To update the fields in the gallery:
     1. Select Edit fields from the property pane on the right.
     2. Select the drop-down menu for a gallery component (such as image, title, or subtitle) and
      change the selection to the field you want.
     3. Close the data pane.
    The gallery updates with the selected changes.
    Update the app title
    To update the app title:
     1. Select the label from the upper-left corner of the screen.
     2. Change the Text property value from the properties pane on the right.
    Verify all the changes you made to the app.
      Tip
     For better responsiveness, the data cards by default have the Width fit property set to On. If
     you want to resize the data cards manually, select the data cards and then set the Width fit
     property to Off.
     Save and preview the app
     Now that you've created your first app with data, you can save your changes and preview the
     app.
       1. Select Save.
       2. Select Preview.
            To add a new record, select New record and fill in the form.
            To edit a record, select the record from the left pane, and edit the values.
            To close the preview, select Close or the Esc key.
     Publish and add app to Teams channel
     Select Publish to Teams to publish the app so others in your team can use the app, and add the
     app to Teams channel. More information: Publish and add an app to Teams
     Now that you've created your first app from a blank table, let's go through the Power Apps
     interface, Studio, controls and how to create additional apps in detail.
     Additional considerations for Microsoft 365 Group
     When you select Create to create an app in the selected team, Power Apps automatically enables
     the selected team's Microsoft 365 Group for security. However, if the group can't be enabled for
     security, you see the following error:
      The request failed with error: 'Insufficient privileges to complete the operation.' The
     tracking Id is '[xxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx]'.
     To fix this issue, manually update the Microsoft 365 Group setting SecurityEnabled from False to
     True by using PowerShell. For detailed steps, see Share an app with Microsoft 365 Groups. For
     more information, see Microsoft 365 Groups and Microsoft Teams.
     Enabling security for teams with same names
     Team names aren't always unique. It's possible for more than one team in Teams to share the
     same display name. For example, there might be more than one team with the name "Inspection"
    in a tenant. However, the Microsoft 365 Group associated with each team has a different ObjectId
    in Microsoft Entra ID, even when the team names are the same. The ObjectId in Microsoft Entra ID
    for a Microsoft 365 Group is the same as the GroupId in Teams for the associated team.
    To find the GroupId (ObjectID in Azure AD) of a team:
      1. Go to the team in Teams.
      2. Select any channel in the team.
      3. Select More options (...) from the upper-right corner, and then select Get link to channel.
      4. Copy the GroupID from the link.
       You can also copy the channel link by selecting Copy, and then pasting it into a text editor
       to get the GroupID value.
       https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3a06f038959c9f4387a35f5d776484cff2%40thread.t
       acv2/General?groupId=40b7e373-a788-4e29-a590-5a86db7550e3&tenantId=00000000-0000-0000-
       0000-0000000000000000
       5. Now that you have the correct team's GroupID (ObjectID in Microsoft Entra ID), use the
         instructions in Share an app with Microsoft 365 Groups to enable security for the team's
         Microsoft 365 Group.
     Troubleshooting
     App publish fails with status code 400
     If you receive a "Request failed with status code 400" error when publishing your app to Teams:
       1. Ensure the team's Microsoft 365 Group is security-enabled. See Additional considerations
         for Microsoft 365 Group.
       2. Check that you have the correct permissions within the team (owner or member).
       3. Try signing out of Teams and signing back in, then attempt publishing again.
     App doesn't appear in Teams after publishing
     If your published app doesn't appear in the Teams app store or the Built by your colleagues
     section:
       1. Allow up to 24 hours for the app to propagate across Teams.
       2. Sign out and sign back in to Teams to clear the cache.
       3. If using Teams web, refresh the browser.
       4. Verify that custom app policies in your organization allow uploaded apps.
     How to delete an app
     To delete an app you no longer need, see Delete an app.
     Next steps
     Overview of the Power Apps app
     Understand Power Apps Studio
     Use the Fluent UI controls
     Create additional apps
     ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 05/22/2026
    Overview of the Power Apps app
    Use the Power Apps app to create and manage apps across the available environments for your
    teams. Select the Power Apps app from the left pane in Microsoft Teams to open the Power Apps
    interface.
     ７ Note
     If Power Apps doesn't appear on the left pane, you can install it. After you install the app,
     you need to create your first app to create an environment. For more information, see
     About Teams environments.
     ） Important
     The Teams interface updates regularly. If specific options or tabs mentioned here don't
     match what you see, look for similar functionality in the current Teams interface. The core
     features described here remain available.
    Three tabs are available: Home, Build, and About. You can start creating a new app by selecting
    Create an app on the Home tab.
    Let's understand each tab in detail.
    Home
    Your Power Apps experience in Teams starts with the Home tab. Use the Home tab to get started
    creating new apps with Power Apps.
     1. Introduction Video: Watch a one-minute video to find out what Power Apps in Teams is all
      about.
      2. Create an app: Select Create an app to enter the Power Apps Studio integrated inside
        Teams and start building a Power Apps app. As you learned from Create your first app in
        Teams, a new environment is created for your team when you first create an app. Creating
        additional apps in the same team uses the environment that you already created for the
        team.
      3. Recent apps: Find the apps that you recently edited in this section. Select an app from this
        section to directly open the app inside the Studio. This section is empty if you didn't edit
        any app yet.
      4. Sample app templates: This section shows available sample app templates.
      5. Learn: Find helpful articles in this section to get you started with Power Apps in Teams.
     Build hub
     Select the Build hub to see the list of environments for each team that you're a member of, and
     the list of apps or objects that the team created or installed.
      1. Environments: Each Microsoft Teams team with an environment that you have access to is
        listed here.
        If you have more than one team with environments, select the team or environment you
        want from the left pane.
              Select      to collapse or expand the environment list.
              When you select an environment from the list, you see the recent resources built by the
              selected environment's team, or the apps installed in the selected environment on the right
              side of the screen.
            2. Built by this team: This list shows all Power Apps objects such as apps, flows, and tables
              created in the selected environment (the Teams team). Select New app to create a new app.
              Select See all to open the solution explorer for the environment. More information: Solution
              explorer
              Select See all to view all the components in the selected environment, and to create new
              apps or components.
        In the Items created for list, select an app, or a table to directly open the selection in the
        respective editor.
       3. Installed apps: Shows a list of installed apps in the environment (Teams team) from the
        Teams app store.
        Select an app, or a table to directly open the selection in the respective editor.
     Solution explorer
     When you select See all from the environment list on the Build hub, you see the Power Apps
     solution explorer with a tree view of the pages for the environment. To get started, select a page
     from the solution explorer on the left.
     All
     Shows all available Power Apps objects such as apps, flows, and chatbots in the selected
     environment.
     Select New to create new apps, flows, or tables.
     Apps
     Shows the apps created with Power Apps. More information: Manage your apps
     Flows
     Shows all the Power Automate flows in the selected team's environment. Power Automate is a
     service that helps you create automated workflows between your favorite apps and services to
     synchronize files, get notifications, collect data, and more. Different types of flows are available.
     More information: Get started with Power Automate
     Tables
    In Power Apps, a table defines information that you want to track in the form of records, which
    typically include properties such as company name, location, products, email, and phone. You can
    then surface that data by creating an app that refers to the table. For more information about
    tables, go to Tables overview.
    Other - Connection references
    Lists connections available to the environment. Data is stored in a data source, and you bring that
    data into your app by creating a connection. A Power Apps connection connects your app to
    such a data source. You can use several other types of connections to connect to the Dataverse
    for Teams environment within the team. More information: Overview of canvas-app connectors
    Other - Environment variables
    Lists the environment variables for your selected team's environment. Apps and flows often
    require different configuration settings across environments. You can use environment variables
    as configurable input parameters separately to manage data, rather than hard-coding values in
    your customization or using additional tools. More information: Environment variables overview.
    About
    Select the About tab to view the version of the installed Power Apps app.
    You can get your current session details by selecting the About tab and then selecting Session
    details. The session details include useful information that you can share with others when
    investigating an issue or working with support teams.
          Timestamp: Date and time in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).
          Session ID: Unique GUID representing the current Power Apps session.
          Tenant ID: Tenant ID of Teams and Power Apps.
          Object ID: Object ID of the user account in Microsoft Entra ID.
          Build name: Build and version details of the Power Apps app.
          Resource ID: ID of the resource.
          Unique name: Unique name of the Dataverse organization.
          Instance url: URL of the Dataverse instance.
        ７ Note
        Use session details only when you contact Microsoft Support to investigate an issue.
      Canvas apps terminology reference and definitions
      When you create canvas apps by using Power Apps from the Teams interface, you need to
      understand the terms and definitions for various objects, options, and actions in an app. The
      following table defines these canvas app terms.
                                                                   ﾉ
                                                                      Expand table
       Component or  Description
       action
       Power Apps    An application used to make or author a canvas app.
       Studio
          Component or      Description
          action
          Canvas app        An app that you can create from scratch or by using any available template through
                            Power Apps Studio.
          Model-driven app  An application based on Dataverse forms, views, tables, columns, and other
                            components.
          Connector         A connection object that connects an app with a data source. For example, a connector
                            for SharePoint or a connector for OneDrive.
          Control           An object that you add on the canvas to provide certain app functionality.
          Property          Behaviors representing the controls available in an app.
          Function          Readily available functionality to extend the behavior of a control or app.
          Formula           A combination of one or more functions to accomplish a certain task or action.
          Screen            The visible area of an app enclosing available visible controls. An app can have multiple
                            screens.
          Component         Reusable combinations of controls that you can define, save, and use for new apps.
          Save an app       Saving an app for the first time, or saving new changes to an app.
          Publish an app    Making an app available to the app store for general consumption.
          Versions          Each time you save an app, you create a new version that you can restore.
          Share an app      Allowing users or groups to use the app, as consumers or co-owners.
        See also
        Understand Power Apps Studio
        Create your first app
        Manage your apps
        Set permissions and share apps with colleagues
        ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
         Last updated on 05/20/2026
     Understand Power Apps Studio in Dataverse
     in a Teams environment
     When you create a canvas app by using any method, you're taken to the canvas app builder
     called Power Apps Studio. You can use Power Apps Studio to design, build, and manage your
     canvas app.
      ７ Note
      The Teams experience changes frequently. If the current Teams UI or screenshots in this
      article don't match what you see, use the option names and overall flow as your guide.
     Overview of Power Apps Studio
      1. Build hub – select different pages in the Power Apps app.
      2. Power Apps Studio options – options relevant to the settings in a Power Apps Studio
       session.
      3. App actions - options to rename, save, preview, or publish the app.
      4. Properties list - list of properties for the selected object.
       5. Formula bar - compose or edit a formula for the selected property with one or more
        functions.
       6. Power Apps app – Power Apps app in Microsoft Teams.
       7. App authoring menu - selection pane to switch between data sources and insert options.
       8. App authoring options - details pane with options relevant to the selected menu item for
        authoring the app.
       9. Canvas/screen - primary canvas for composing the app structure.
      10. Properties pane - properties list for the selected object in UI format.
      11. Screen selector - switch between different screens in an app.
      12. Change canvas screen size - change the size of the canvas during an authoring experience
        in Power Apps Studio.
     Let's understand each option in Power Apps Studio in detail.
     1 - Build hub
     Opening Power Apps Studio from the build hub opens an app authoring experience that inherits
     the Teams interface and options. The Home, Build, and About tabs are described in Overview of
     the Power Apps app.
     2 – Power Apps Studio options
     Power Apps Studio options are available on the menu in the upper-left corner. The options are
     relevant to the current session and app-related settings.
     Back
     Takes you back to the build hub, closing the current Power Apps Studio session.
