      Now that all the controls have been added, save and publish the app. On a mixed-reality
      capable device (as defined in the Prerequisites section), open the app, and press the
      Measure Area button. This action will open the Measuring camera experience, allowing
      the user to define an area to be measured.
      Follow the on-screen instructions to calibrate the device by slowly moving it left and
      right while pointing the camera at a surface to be measured. Once the calibration is
      complete, you'll see an array of dots on the surface as well as a circle and dot reticle in
      the center of the screen. This reticle is used to define lengths, areas, and volumes by
      using the + button to add points and line segments.
      Photos can be captured using the camera button. These photos will show the lengths,
      areas, and volumes defined by the user.
      There's an undo button to undo any placed points.
      Begin by placing a point using the + button. You'll notice that an orange line and
      measurement now appear connected to the point you placed. Place a second point and
      notice how a line with measurement appears between the two points you place.
      Continue placing points until the desired shape has been fully defined. To close a shape,
      place the reticle on the first point made and use the + button. You'll notice that the
      center point of the reticle changes color from white to green, indicating that the shape
      can be closed. If two of the sides of the shape intersect, or you try to close a shape using
      any other point than the first one. You'll notice that the center point of the reticle
      changes from white to red, indicating that a point cannot be placed there.
      Once an area has been fully defined, position the device so that a picture can be taken
      of the area you defined and use the camera button to do so. The select the Submit
      button. A confirmation dialog will appear, asking if you've finished with your
      measurements. If you have more measurements to enter, select Cancel to return to the
      MR environment. If you're finished, select Submit to be taken back to the app screen.
      You'll see the first picture taken as well as the calculated area of the shape you defined
      as well as the units, in this case square-feet.
      The measurement and photo can then be used like any other photo or text field in
      Power Apps, for instance to be sent in an email or stored in a table in Microsoft
      Dataverse.
      See also
        Measuring Camera control
        Add mixed reality controls to your canvas app
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
            Create a canvas app with deep link to a
            specific screen
            Article • 12/16/2022
            A common scenario when building apps is the need to share a "deep link" to a specific
            screen. Deep links are useful when you want to get users straight to a specific screen
            and data rather than asking them to navigate from the "home" screen of your app.
            To deep link into Power Apps, you'll use this URL syntax:
            https://apps.powerapps.com/play/{App ID}?{Query}.
            In this syntax:
                App ID—ID of the app. Go to Power Apps    > Apps > Select your app > Details.
                Query—The query text allows you to supply the data to deep link to. You'll need to
                make some code changes to your canvas app to use the provided parameters to
                open the app using the query URL.
            In this article, you'll learn about how to:
                Set up a canvas app to handle the query parameter.
                Create a UI for emailing a deep link directly from a screen of your app.
                Use the app to browse to a specific account, send an email with the deep link, and
                use the link from the received email to open the app directly to that account.
            Prerequisites
                Power Apps license
                If you're new to Power Apps, familiarize yourself with Power Apps basics by
                generating an app and then customizing that app's controls, gallery, forms, and
                cards.
                To create an app, you must be assigned to the Environment Maker security role.
            Create the app
            Create an app using the Accounts table in Microsoft Dataverse.
            Your app opens to the BrowseScreen, that shows a list of accounts in a gallery. By
            default, this gallery shows an email address, a city, and an account name. The app also
            contains DetailScreen and EditScreen.
       Update navigation
       Now you'll set the navigation to use a context that we'll use to take the user to another
       screen.
         1. On BrowseScreen screen, select Layout under gallery properties, and select Title,
          subtitle and body
         2. Select first record of BrowseGallery gallery. And then, under OnSelect, enter the
          following:
            Power Fx
            Navigate(DetailScreen1, Fade, {accountVal:ThisItem})
          The Navigate() function creates a context variable called accountVal. This variable
          is populated whenever you select a record from the gallery. Upon selecting record,
          you'll be taken to the DetailScreen with the selected value (in this example,
          account) in accountVal.
       3. From the Tree view on the left-side of the screen, expand DetailScreen1, and select
        DetailForm1.
       4. From the properties pane on the right-side of the screen, select Edit fields, and
        add Account, Primary Contact, and Email fields.
       5. Select DetailForm, and set Item to accountVal.
               6. Save with the name "Account deep linking".
            Get the App ID
            App ID is a unique GUID representing a given app, and generated when you save the
            app to cloud.
            To get the App ID, open a new tab and go to Power Apps    > Apps > Select your app >
            Details. More information: Get an App ID
            Enable deep link to a screen
       The goal of this example is to take users to the DetailsScreen1 when the app is launched
       with the accountId query parameter as part of the app URL. For this purpose, we'll use
       function Param() that retrieves the query string parameter supplied while launching the
       app.
         1. Select App from the Tree view on the left-side of the screen.
             Tip
            If you've closed Power Apps Studio, reopen the saved "Account deep linking"
            app by editing the app.
         2. Select OnStart property from the list of properties.
         3. To store the App ID value, update the OnStart property formula as below.
            Power Fx
            Set(AppID, "GUID");
            If(Not(IsBlank(Param("accountId"))),Set(accountId,Param("accountId")));
          In this formula, function Set() sets the App ID to the GUID of the app. And function
          Param() stores the value in the accountId variable, when not blank.
            ７ Note
            Ensure you replace "GUID" in the above formula to your App ID as
            appropriate.
         4. Select StartScreen property for the app, and add the following:
            Power Fx
            If(Not(IsBlank(Param("accountId"))),DetailScreen1,BrowseScreen1)
          This function checks if the Param is blank, then stay on the BrowseScreen1. Else, go
          to DetailScreen1.
         5. Select DetailScreen1 from the Tree view.
         6. Select OnVisible property, and enter the following:
            Power Fx
            If(Not(IsBlank(accountId)), UpdateContext({accountVal:LookUp(Accounts, 
            Account = GUID(accountId))}))
          This function uses accountId stored from the previous step to set accountVal
          variable.
       Create the deep link URL
       Your app is now configured to receive accountId as the parameter that contains the
       GUID for an account from the Accounts table. And when this parameter is provided with
       the request to the app, the app will directly open the details screen (DetailScreen1) with
       the given accountId.
       To invoke app with the parameter value, we have to use the following syntax:
       https://apps.powerapps.com/play/{App ID}?{Query}
       In the above syntax, we have to add the App ID and the query that contains accountId
       variable with its value.
       For example, when the following URL was entered in a browser for the sample tenant,
       the app Account deep linking opened directly with the supplied accountId parameter
       value (in this example, "A. Datum Corporation (Sample)"):
       https://apps.powerapps.com/play/061b64cd-e5a0-4a7a-a77f-b6f8586dd6c7?
       accountId=01e5bf81-7d44-ec11-8c60-002248094566
       Send deep link in email
       We can also supply a variable accountVal to point to the account's ID instead of using
       absolute link explained above while invoking the URL for the given account from inside
       the app.
       For this purpose, we'll create a button and add the ability to invoke an email from within
       the app with the deep link to the selected account's details screen from the Account
       deep linking app.
         1. Select Data from the left-side of the screen.
         2. Select Add data > search for and select Office 365 Outlook > select Connect.
            ７ Note
            This action adds the Microsoft 365 Outlook connection so that we can use the
            next steps to invoke composing an email to share the account information.
         3. Select DetailScreen1 from the Tree view.
         4. Insert a button at bottom-right of the screen, and rename it to Share Account.
         5. On the button's OnSelect property, enter the following:
            Power Fx
            Office365Outlook.SendEmailV2("Recipient", "Subject", "Here's the deep 
            link to the selected account - https://apps.powerapps.com/play/{App 
            ID}?accountId=" & accountVal.Account)
          This formula uses the Microsoft 365 connector for Outlook to send an email using
          the SendEmailV2 operation.
            ７ Note
            Replace Recipient, Subject, and AppID in the above formula with the email
            address of the recipient, subject for the email, and the ID of the app.
         6. Save and publish the app.
       Test the app
      Run the app, and go to the details screen for any account. And then, select the button
      Share account. The OnSelect button formula triggers an email to the recipient with the
      subject and body configured earlier. Here's a sample email sent by the configured app:
      Open the email, and copy the deep link that points to the selected account, and you'll
      be taken directly to the account details screen in the Account deep linking app, instead
      of the default browse screen.
      See also
         Create a canvas app from a template
         Add and configure controls in canvas apps
         Get started with formulas in canvas apps
      Feedback
        Was this page helpful?
                     Yes  No
        Provide product feedback
             Work with the PDF function
             (experimental)
             Article • 04/11/2023
             The PDF function in Power Apps generates a PDF document from the contents of a
             screen or certain types of controls. You can pass the generated file to an action
             connector—for example, to send it in an email using the Office 365 Outlook connector
             —or to a Power Automate flow as part of an automation scenario.
               ） Important
                    This is an experimental feature. Experimental features aren't meant for
                    production use and may have restricted functionality. These features are
                    available before an official release so that customers can get early access and
                    provide feedback. Understand experimental, preview, and retired features in
                    canvas apps.
                    You must turn on the PDF function in Settings > Upcoming features >
                    Experimental. As an experimental feature, it's disabled by default.
                    Send your feedback in the Power Apps experimental features community
                    forum .
             Turn on the PDF function
             Since the PDF function is an experimental feature, it's turned off by default. To use it in
             your apps, you need to turn it on manually.
                1. Sign in to Power Apps   and create a canvas app or open an existing app.
                2. In Power Apps Studio, on the command bar, select Settings.
                3. Select Upcoming features.
                4. On the Experimental tab, turn on PDF function.
             Use the PDF function to generate a PDF file
             In the following example, we use the PDF function in the OnSelect property of a button
             to generate a PDF file. You can also use the PDF function in OnVisible, OnHidden, or any
       other behavior property.
        1. Select an existing button or add a new button to your canvas app.
        2. In the button's OnSelect property, add the PDF function and enter the target of
          the function as a parameter. Enter the formula: PDF(SubmitInspectionScreen);
          In this example, we're targeting the screen SubmitInspectionScreen to generate a
          PDF file from the contents of our sample app's Inspection screen. Replace it with
          the name of a screen in your app.
        3. Select Save and publish.
       Play the app and select the button you added. The PDF file is generated and stored in
       memory for future use. The following section suggests a few ways to work with the PDF
       file in your app.
       The PDF function can only target the screen that's currently visible. You can pass the
       entire screen, as in our example, or enter more parameters to specify a container or
       gallery to limit the content to pass.
       Work with the generated PDF file
       You can use the generated PDF file in many ways. Here are a few, using the example in
       the previous section.
       View the file with the PDF viewer control
        1. In your canvas app, select the button that you created in the previous example or
          add a new button.
        2. In the button's OnSelect property, enter the following formula, replacing
          SubmitInspectionScreen with the name of a screen in your app: Set(myPDF,
          PDF(SubmitInspectionScreen));
        3. Select Insert > PDF viewer (experimental).
        4. From the properties list, select the Document property and then enter myPDF in
          the formula bar.
        5. Select Save and publish.
       Play the app and select the button you added. The PDF file is generated, stored in the
       variable myPDF, and visible in the PDF viewer control.
       The PDF viewer control appears as a black shape inside the generated PDF file. To
       exclude the control from the generated file, place the content you want to turn into a
        PDF file inside a container or gallery and target that instead of the screen; for
        example,PDF(Container1) or PDF(Gallery1).
        Use an action connector
        In this example, we generate a PDF file that we send as an email attachment using the
        Office 365 Outlook connector.
          1. In your canvas app, select the button that you created in the previous example or
            add a new button.
          2. In the button's OnSelect property, enter the following formula:
             Office365Outlook.SendEmailV2(  
                "sample@email.com",  
                 "New Safety Inspection"  
                 "A new safety inspection has been submitted for your review. Please 
             see attached.",  
                 {  
                     Attachments: Table(  
                          {  
                              Name: "submittedInspection.pdf",  
                              ContentBytes: PDF(SubmitInspectionScreen)  
                          }  
                      )  
                 }  
              );  
          3. Select Save and publish.
      Play the app and select the button you added. The PDF file is generated, and an email is
      sent to the specified email address with the generated PDF file attached.
      Use in a Power Automate flow
      In this example, we generate a PDF file and pass it to a Power Automate flow that stores
      the file in a document library using the SharePoint connector. This example replaces the
      default PowerApps trigger in Power Automate with the PowerApps (V2) trigger.
      Create a flow to use in your app
       1. In your canvas app, select the button that you created in the previous example or
        add a new button.
       2. In the app authoring menu, select Power Automate > Create new flow.
       3. Select Create from blank.
       4. To delete the default PowerApps trigger, select the trigger menu (…), and then
        select Delete.
       5. Search for and select PowerApps (V2).
       6. Select the PowerApps V2 trigger to expand the node, and then select Add an
        input.
       7. Select File as the type of user input.
       8. Select Add an input again, and then select Text as the type of user input.
       9. Rename the input File Name and change the description to Please enter the name
        of the file.
      Add the SharePoint connector to the flow
       1. Select New step to add an action. Search for SharePoint and select Create file.
       2. In Site Address, select a SharePoint site that you have permission to add files to.
       3. In Folder Path, select a document library that you have permission to add files to.
       4. Select the File Name input. In the Dynamic content tab, select a file name under
        PowerApps (V2).
       5. Select the File Content input, and then select File Content in the list.
       6. Select Save, and then select the x in the upper-right corner to close the Power
        Automate window.
       7. The Power Automate pane refreshes, and the new PowerApps (V2) flow, Create file,
        appears in the list.
      Add the flow to a button in your app
       1. Select the button in your app canvas. In the button's OnSelect property, enter the
        following formula, replacing the flow name and generated PDF file name with your
        own:
              'PowerAppV2->Createfile'.Run(  
                 "NewInspectionReport.pdf",  
                  {          
                     file: {  
                          name: "NewInspectionReport.pdf",  
                          contentBytes: PDF(InspectionDetails)  
                      }                
                  }  
              );   
          2. Select Save and publish.
        Play the app and select the button you added. The Power Automate flow runs and adds
        the generated PDF file into the document library.
        See also
        PDF function in Power Apps (experimental)
         Overview of wrap
         06/16/2025
         The wrap feature in Power Apps lets you package your canvas app as a custom-branded
         Android or iOS app for native distribution to mobile users. Distribute these wrapped native
         mobile apps to users through the Google Play Store  , Apple Business Manager   , or
         Microsoft Intune.
         Key capabilities
         With wrap, you can:
              Package one or more Power Apps canvas apps in the same native mobile app package.
              Customize your mobile app startup experience to match your organization's branding.
              Specify the app icon, splash screen image, welcome screen image, and color palette.
              Update wrapped mobile apps by publishing changes to the included canvas app through
              the Power Apps     maker portal.
              Distribute apps using MDM.
           ７ Note
           All published changes to the included canvas app(s) are downloaded automatically by
           existing, released versions of your wrapped mobile apps.
         Benefits of wrap
         Wrap brings native mobile application development platform (MADP) capabilities to Power
         Apps:
                                                                                     ﾉ Expand table
          Benefit                                      Description
          No-code mobile app development               Create mobile apps with no previous experience
          Managed mobile app builds                    We generate the app for you
          Seamless end-to-end branding                 Use your own logo and color palette
          Multiple canvas apps support                 Bundle multiple apps in a single mobile app
          Enterprise governance with Microsoft Intune  Protect your data with app management
         Software and device requirements
         Platforms supported
              iOS: Version 14.0 or later.
              Android: Version 8.0 (API level 26) or later.
         Device requirements
              iOS: iPhone 6S or later, iPad 5th generation or later.
              Android: Any device that runs Android 8.0 or later.
         Developer requirements
              Microsoft Power Apps account with appropriate licenses.
              Access to Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) for app registration.
              Azure subscription (for Azure Key Vault and Blob Storage).
              For manual code signing:
                 iOS: macOS device with Xcode installed.
                 Android: Windows PC with Android Studio installed.
         Wrap process overview
         The wrap feature packages your canvas app in a native mobile app shell and produces a
         mobile package. You can digitally sign and distribute this mobile package as your custom-
         branded Android and iOS app through native distribution channels, like Google Play Store
         and Apple Business Manager    .
     Step-by-step process
       1. Select your primary canvas app and start the wrap wizard. A primary canvas app provides
        the initial experience users see when launching your mobile app. Your canvas apps must
        be part of a solution. More information: Add canvas app to solution.
       2. Optionally, add secondary canvas apps to your mobile app in the wrap wizard. More
        information: Wrapping multiple canvas apps together.
       3. Select the target platforms (iOS and Android) for your mobile app. Optionally, select
        automatically code sign your mobile app package.
       4. Register your app. Use an existing app registration or create a new one in the wrap
        wizard.
       5. Customize app branding with icons, images, and a color palette to personalize your
        mobile app.
       6. Add the Azure blob storage account name and container name. Use an existing Azure
        blob storage or create a new one.
       7. Start the build process in the Wrap up step to generate your custom branded mobile
        app.
       8. Download your mobile app from the App blob storage location.
       9. If you don't select automatically code sign in the wrap wizard, code sign the mobile app
        package manually. More about signing your mobile app package manually: Signing your
        mobile app package manually.
      10. Test the app package.
      11. Distribute the app package to mobile users.
     Wrap multiple canvas apps together
     You can wrap more than one canvas app into a single mobile app package. The mobile app
     package needs a home app, called the primary app. This app becomes the entry point for all
     other canvas apps included in the mobile app package, which are called secondary apps.
     Secondary apps are optional. When you wrap only one canvas app, that app is considered the
     primary app, and the mobile app package has no secondary apps.
     As shown in the illustration below, a primary app can have links to multiple secondary apps.
     You can manage navigation between primary and secondary apps using the Launch() function.
     Brand your mobile app
     Wrap supports customization of the mobile app bootstrap experience to match your
     organization's branding requirements. You can specify:
       App icon
       Splash screen image
       Welcome (sign in) screen image
       Color palette for native experiences
     Branding customization options are available when building your wrap project. More
     information: Configure branding
     Wrap terminology
     Wrap involves multiple components across Power Apps and third-party platforms such as iOS
     and Android. Understanding these components is important when working with the wrap
     functionality.
     App platform(s)
         Target platforms for your app during the build process. You can create builds for:
               iOS — creates IPA package
               Android — creates APK package
               Google Play Store — creates AAB package for distribution
         Bundle ID
         The bundle ID is a unique identifier for your app that follows a reverse domain name pattern. It
         must contain one period (.) and no spaces. Example: com.contoso.myapp.
         This bundle ID is used when creating the Azure key vault for wrap after iOS or Android
         certificates are created and uploaded. If you've already created the Azure key vault, verify the
         bundle ID in the Tags section of the Azure portal   . Use this same bundle ID in Step 2: Target
         platform.
         Code signing
         Code signing completes a mobile app before distribution to end users. A code-signed app
         assures users it comes from a known source and the app code hasn't changed since it was last
         signed by the trusted source.
         Primary app
         A primary app is the entry point or home app for the mobile app experience when wrapping
         multiple canvas apps together. If only one canvas app is wrapped, it's considered the primary
         app.
         Secondary app
         Secondary apps are optional canvas apps that you wrap in the same build for mobile app
         distribution along with the primary app.
         Redirect URI
         A redirect URI (reply URL) is the location where the authorization server sends the user after
         successful app authorization and access token grant. The authorization server sends the code
         or token to the redirect URI, so registering the correct location during app registration is
         important. More information: Redirect URI
     Common issues and limitations
     Known limitations
        The wrap feature only supports canvas apps (not model-driven apps)
        All canvas apps in a wrap project must be from the same environment
        Users must have a Power Apps license to use wrapped apps
     Common issues
        Bundle ID conflicts: Ensure your bundle ID is unique across your organization
        Image format issues: All images must be in PNG format
        Signing certificate problems: Verify certificate validity and expiration dates
        Azure Key Vault access: Make sure proper permissions are configured
     For troubleshooting details, see Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps.
     Next steps
     System requirements and prerequisites for Wrap
     See also
        Use the wrap wizard to build your mobile app
        Manual code sign on iOS
        Manual code sign on Android
        Code sign for Google Play Store
        Create your Azure Key Vault for automated code signing
        Frequently Asked Questions
        Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps
        Benefits and limitations of Wrap
         System requirements and prerequisites for
         Wrap
         07/09/2025
         Before you use Wrap to create native mobile apps from your Power Apps canvas apps, check
         that your system meets these requirements.
         Software and device requirements
              You need a Mac device for manual code signing with iOS.
              You need a Windows PC for manual code signing with Android.
              To run the wrapped mobile app:
                 Android device with version 10 or higher
                 iOS device with version 14 or higher
           ７ Note
           You need an Apple Developer Program       account to develop apps for iOS.
         Permissions and access requirements
            1. You need access to:
                   One or more canvas apps to build the wrap project.
                   Azure blob storage, including the account name and container name. More
                   information: Create an Azure storage account.
                   The Azure portal    to create app registration and register your app, which should be
                   in the same environment as your Power Apps.
            2. An Azure admin must grant you access to use the specific wrap app. More information:
              API permissions.
            3. Your apps must be part of a managed or unmanaged solution. If not, add them to an
              existing or new solution. More information: Create a canvas app from within a solution.
            4. You need an Azure key vault to perform the automatic sign-in process through Wrap
              wizard. More information: Create a key vault using the Azure portal.
            5. Check the policies enabled for your application. More information: Conditional Access
              policy templates
       6. If multifactor authentication (MFA) is enabled, make sure MFA is enabled for the accounts
        you'll use to sign in, or disable the conditional access policies.
     Sign-in options in Wrap
        Manual code sign-in for Android and iOS: This option is best for most scenarios. For
        Android, generate keys and generate a signature hash before you start. You need the
        signature hash to set up the Redirect URI. More information: manual code sign-in for
        Android.
        Automatic sign-in using Wrap wizard: This option requires an Azure key vault. More
        information: creating a key vault using the Azure portal.
     Add canvas app to a solution
     Wrap requires your apps to be part of a solution. If your canvas apps aren't already in a
     solution, add them to an existing or new solution.
       1. In the left navigation pane, select Solutions. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select
        …More and then select the item you want.
       2. Select a solution, and then select Edit.
     Select + Add existing from the top menu, and then select App > Canvas app from the
     dropdown.
     Select the Outside Dataverse tab, select your app from the list, and then select Add to add the
     app to the solution.
     More information: Add an app to a solution
     Next steps
     Use the wrap wizard to build your mobile app
     See also
        Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps
        Manual code sign on iOS
        Manual code sign on Android
        Code sign for Google Play Store
        Create your Azure Key Vault for automated code signing
        Frequently Asked Questions
        Wrap wizard: Step-by-step guide to building
        your native mobile app
        Use this guide to convert one or more canvas apps into a single custom-branded app package
        that you can deploy on Google Play and the iOS App Store.
        The wrap feature in Power Apps enables you to create native mobile versions of your canvas apps
        as custom-branded Android and iOS mobile apps (IPA, APK, AAB packages). You can distribute
        these wrapped native mobile apps to end users through Google Play     , Apple Business
        Manager , or other native distribution methods.
        When you update and republish your app, the wrapped app is automatically updated for users.
        Steps to create a custom-branded native app using the
        wrap wizard
        Follow these steps to configure, build, sign, and distribute a custom-branded native mobile app
        package (APK, AAB, or IPA) from your canvas apps using the wrap wizard in Power Apps.
        1. Sign in and start a wrap project
           1. Sign in to Power Apps maker portal  .
           2. Select Wrap from the left navigation pane. If the item isn’t in the side panel pane, select …
             More and then select the item you want.
           3. Select the app you want to wrap, then select Wrap on the command bar.
        2. Select apps
           1. On the Select the app(s) to wrap screen, select your primary and secondary app.
                   Primary app: The main app end users see when the mobile app launches.
                   Secondary app(s): Optional other apps bundled in the same mobile app package.
                ７ Note
                     You can use the same primary app in multiple wrap projects.
                      If the primary app name appears incorrect, proceed to the next step and return to
                      refresh the name.
           2. Select Next.
        3. Choose target platform
           1. On the Choose mobile platform to target screen, enter a Bundle ID.
                ７ Note
                The Bundle ID is a unique identifier for your app. It must contain one period (.) and no
                spaces. Use this same bundle ID when creating the Azure key vault after generating
                and uploading your iOS or Android certificates. If you have already created the Azure
                Key Vault, verify the bundle ID in the Tags section of the Azure portal   .
           2. Under Target platform(s), select all the mobile platforms that your end users use on their
              mobile devices.
           3. You need to have Azure key vault, to upload your build to Azure blob storage. If you haven't
              already created, create one. Create an Azure key vault right within the Wrap wizard, or
              follow the instructions manually.
           4. Turn on the Autosigning toggle to automate the signing process.
                ７ Note
                Manual signing options:
                      Code sign for iOS
                      Code sign for Android
                      Code sign for Google Play Store      You must manually sign AAB files regardless
                      of the signing option selected in the wizard.
           5. Set up autosigning through the wizard.
              a. In the target platform step, toggle on Autosigning. The service checks if key vault and
                 certificate are already attached.
         ７ Note
         Azure Key Vault is used to securely store and manage application secrets and
         certificates, with centralized access and full audit logging.
      b. If you don't have key vault and certificate or want to change them, select Configure.
         ７ Note
         Only Azure admins can create a key vault from the wrap wizard. Other users need to
         follow the manual key vault creation process.
                                             
       c. On the side panel, select the subscription and resource group, and choose the key vault.
        To create a new key vault, select Create a new keyvault. After you select the key vault,
        select Next.
                                             
      d. The service checks if the appropriate service principal, reader role, access policies, and
        environment variables are set up for the key vault. If errors appear, fix them. After all
        checks pass, select Next.
      e. On the next screen, enter the name of the certificate in the key vault.
       f. If no certificate exists or you want to change the certificate, see Generate key and
        signature hash to create a new certificate. Then select Create a certificate on this screen.
        This action takes you to the Azure portal key vault location. Upload the generated
        certificate into the configured key vault.
         ７ Note
         Users are responsible for creating the certificate.
                                                                                                  
              g. Select Finish.
              h. On the main screen, the Azure Key Vault and certificate appear as confirmed.
              i. On the main screen, select Next.
           6. Set up autosigning from within Azure portal.
              a. Refer to instructions in create an Azure key vault to create an Azure key vault. Once the
                vault is created, you need to add the required tags, secrets, and certificates. Add the
                environment variable if not created already.
              b. To create the environment variable, go to Power Apps   > Solutions > Default solution.
                Then select New > More > Environment variable, add the display name as
                "PA_Wrap_KV_ResourceID".
          
                The name of the new environment variable must have the prefix "new." If it doesn't, see
        Set Environment Variable Prefix for detailed steps.
                                             
       c. To add vault information to your environment variables, access the Azure portal as an
        admin. Navigate to All Resources > Your Key Vault > Properties, and then copy the
        Resource ID.
                                             
      d. To add the input to the environment variable, go to Power Apps > ApplicationName >
        All > Environment variable. Click the three dots, select Edit, add the copied value to
        Default value, and save.
      e. To check whether the table value has been updated, go to Power Apps > Tables >
        Environment variable definition > new_PA_Wrap_KV_ResourceID . The value in Default
        value must be same as that of the resourceID for which you want to add the vault.
         ７ Note
         Guidelines for adding the input behind the environment variables for Key vault
         information:
           Environment variables must not be empty or can contain multiple entries.
           Ensure that the resourceID added is correct (verify spelling).
           Ensure that the resourceID added has non-empty tags and includes all the tags
           expected with the bundle ID used in the wrap wizard.
       f. Follow the steps in Steps for automated code signing to create the tags, secrets, and
        certificates required during the automatic signing process.
     4. Manage output
     Configure where your app binaries (APK and IPA files) will be stored. Choose one of the following
     options based on your storage and access requirements.
                                                                  
     Dataverse (Recommended)
     Dataverse storage is the simpler option and is recommended for testing and evaluation of
     deployments.
     When you select Dataverse, build binaries are automatically stored in the
      msdyn_PowerAppsWrapBuild table in your current environment. Builds count against your Dataverse
     storage capacity.
     Azure Blob Storage
     Azure Blob Storage requires setup.
     Prerequisites
    Before you configure Azure Blob Storage, make sure you have:
      An Azure Blob Storage account and container. If you don't have them, learn how to create a
      storage account.
      An Azure Key Vault that contains the access credentials for your storage account. If you
      don't have one, learn how to create a key vault.
      Sufficient permissions to read secrets from the key vault.
    Configure Azure Blob Storage
    To configure Azure blob storage follow these steps:
     1. On the Manage output page, select Configure.
                                             
     2. In the Configure keyvault side panel, select the key vault that stores your Azure blob
      storage credentials, and then select Next.
     3. Enter the following details:
         Storage account name: The name of your Azure Blob Storage account.
         Container name: The container where build artifacts will be uploaded.
     4. Select Save.
     After you save, the configuration is applied to subsequent builds. To verify, run a build and
     confirm that the APK or IPA file appears in your specified container.
     5. Register your app
     On the Register your app screen, register your application in Azure to establish trust with the
     Microsoft identity platform.
         If you have already registered an app:
           Find your registration in the owned registration field.
         If you do not see your registered app:
           1. Select New app registration to create a new registration.
           2. Provide:
              Application name: The customer-facing name of your app
              Android signature hash (if targeting Android): A 28-character alphanumeric string
                                                                  
           3. Save your changes.
     Configure admin allowed third-party apps as an azure tenant admin
     The registered app must be configured as a third-party app. To configure the app, the Azure
     tenant admin follows these steps.
       For Windows
         1. Open Windows PowerShell as administrator.
         2. Run these commands:
         PowerShell
         Install-Module -Name Microsoft.PowerApps.Administration.PowerShell -
         AllowClobber -Force
         Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
         Import-Module -Name Microsoft.PowerApps.Administration.PowerShell
         Add-AdminAllowedThirdPartyApps
         Get-AdminAllowedThirdPartyApps
       3. Provide the App ID when prompted.
    After completing these steps, the registration screen will look like this:
                                                   
    Grant API permissions as an Azure tenant admin
    The app requires the following API permissions to function correctly.
    Required API permissions
                                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
          API Type            Specific API                Reason
          Microsoft APIs      Dynamics CRM                The application needs user_impersonation to call
                                                          Dataverse for the user.
          APIs my             Azure API Connections       The application needs Runtime.All to call any connector
          organization uses                               from Power Platform.
          APIs my             PowerApps Service           The application needs the User permission to contact
          organization uses                               Power Apps backend services from Power Platform.
          APIs my             Power BI                    The application needs Power BI permissions to access or
          organization uses                               embed Power BI content.
          APIs my             Microsoft Mobile            The application needs this permission because Power
          organization uses   Application Management      Apps uses Intune SDK internally.
         Configure permissions from within Wrap wizard
         The wrap wizard checks and flags permissions that aren't available with the app. As an Azure
         admin, select one click access in the wrap wizard to grant the pending permissions. Alternatively,
         you can configure permissions through the Powershell commands below.
                                                                                                           
         Configure permissions through Powershell commands:
        Make sure DeviceManagementManagedApplication is set to Yes when you grant admin consent
        for your app.
                                                                                               
        Run these PowerShell commands as an Azure admin if you don't see permissions under APIs my
        organization uses:
           1. Ensure the module Microsoft Graph   is available or install it:
               PowerShell
               Install-Module -Name Microsoft.Graph
           2. Grant Azure API Connections permission for the static AppId fe053c5f-3692-4f14-aef2-
             ee34fc081cae:
               PowerShell
               Connect-MgGraph -TenantId <your tenant ID>
               New-MgServicePrincipal -AppId fe053c5f-3692-4f14-aef2-ee34fc081cae -DisplayName 
               "Azure API Connections"
           3. Grant PowerApps Service permission for the static AppId 475226c6-020e-4fb2-8a90-
             7a972cbfc1d4:
               PowerShell
               Connect-MgGraph -TenantId <your tenant ID>
               New-MgServicePrincipal -AppId 475226c6-020e-4fb2-8a90-7a972cbfc1d4 -DisplayName 
        "PowerApps Service"
      ７ Note
      If only the Application name field is visible, continue to the next steps and select Android as
      a target platform to display the signature hash field.
    Configure API permissions manually (optional)
    If you get errors, manually configure API permissions. For more information, see Add and
    configure.
    Add Redirect URIs as an app admin
      1. In the Azure Portal, go to your app registration > Authentication.
      2. Select Add a platform and choose iOS or Android.
      3. For iOS, enter the Bundle ID. For Android, enter both the Bundle ID and Signature hash
       key.
                                                   
        6. Configure branding
            1. On the Configure Branding step, set the following options for your app:
           ７ Note
           All images must be in .png format. Default images will be used if no custom images are
           selected.
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
          Setting                    Description                              Requirements
          App icons                  Icons for your app                       iOS: 1024x1024 px or larger
                                                                              Android: 432x432 px or larger
          Splash screen image        Image shown while the app loads          .png format
          Welcome screen image       Image shown on the sign-in screen        .png format
          Background fill color      Color for welcome screen background      Hexadecimal color code
          Button fill color          Color for buttons                        Hexadecimal color code
          Status bar text theme      Color for the status bar text            Light or Dark
            2. Select Next.
        7. Wrap up and build
            1. On the Wrap up screen, review your app details and select Build.
            2. After a successful build, your app package will be available in the Azure blob storage you
              specified.
        View your build
        You can view your build in several ways:
              After building, select View Builds
              Go to Wrap projects in the side pane, hover over the required project, and select it
              Select the View builds option in the top header
                                                          
      ７ Note
      To manually code sign an iOS app, unzip the IPA file using a Mac device.
     Test and distribute your app
     Test your app and distribute it as needed. If you encounter issues, see the troubleshooting page.
     Set environment variable prefix
     The name of the new environment variable must have the prefix "new." If it doesn't, follow these
     steps:
       1. Go to Solutions > New solution.
       2. Select a Publisher or create one.
       3. Select the edit icon next to the Publisher to view or change the prefix.
       4. If the prefix isn't "new," change it to "new."
       5. Save your changes.
     Register your app on Azure portal manually (optional)
     You can create your app registration automatically in the wizard or manually in Azure. More
     information: Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform.
      ７ Note
      Both single tenant and multitenant customers can use wrap to create native mobile apps
      based on their Power Apps canvas apps.
     When registering, select an account type containing Any Microsoft Entra directory -
     Multitenant:
        Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra directory - Multitenant)
        Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra directory - Multitenant) and
        personal Microsoft accounts such as Skype or Xbox
      ） Important
         Wrap only supports Multitenant account types currently. The single tenant account
         type is not yet supported. More information: Account types in Microsoft identity
         platform.
         You must create a separate Redirect URI for each platform (iOS, Android).
     Sign your mobile app package manually (optional)
     You can sign your app automatically in Step 2 or manually after building. Code signing is
     different for Android and iOS.
     Advantages of automatic signing for iOS and Android (APK):
        You don't need to repeat the signing process during rewrapping.
        You don't have to wait for app developers to finish the process.
        You don't need to set up Android Studio or remember passwords.
        You don't need a Mac device for iOS signing.
                                                     ﾉ Expand table
      Platform           Signing Method
      iOS                Manual code sign for iOS
      Android            Manual code sign for Android
      Google Play Store  Code signing for Google Play Store
     See also
        Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps
        Wrap overview
        Manual code sign for iOS
        Manual code sign for Android
        Create your Azure Key Vault for automated code signing
        Frequently asked questions for wrap
      Last updated on 06/12/2026
          Manual code sign for iOS
          06/16/2025
          This article explains how to code sign for iOS. You need to sign your app for iOS if you selected
          iOS as one of the platforms while creating and building your wrap project.
            ） Important
            Using Xcode to digitally sign your wrapped mobile apps for iOS is not supported. Follow
            the instructions below to sign your wrapped mobile app packages for iOS correctly.
          Before you begin
          Prerequisites
          Before you start, make sure you have:
               App ID
               Device UDIDs (only for testing and development purposes)
               A macOS device to code sign for iOS
          Set up your Mac
             1. Install Xcode. More information: Xcode
             2. Install PowerShell for macOS. More information: Installing PowerShell on macOS
             3. Enroll in the Apple Developer Program
             4. For organization distribution, sign up for the Apple Enterprise Developer Program
          Create App ID
             1. Sign in to your developer account at https://developer.apple.com        and select the
               Account tab.
             2. Go to Certificates, IDs & Profiles > Identifiers   .
             3. Select + to create a new identifier.
       4. Select App IDs, then select Continue.
       5. Select the type as App, then select Continue.
       6. Register an App ID:
            Description - Name of your app.
            Bundle ID - Select Explicit Bundle ID.
            Enter the bundle ID that you used while creating the wrap project. More
            information: Bundle ID
            Enable these capabilities:
             Associated Domains
             iCloud
             NFC Tag Reading
             Push Notifications
            Select Continue.
       7. Review and register the App ID.
      Create distribution certificate
          Create Certificate Signing Request (CSR)
             1. On your Mac, go to the Applications folder > Utilities > open Keychain Access.
             2. Select Keychain Access > Certificate Assistant > Request a Certificate from a Certificate
               Authority.
             3. Fill out the Certificate Information:
                     In the User Email Address field, enter your Apple ID email address.
                     In the Common Name field, enter your name.
                     In the Request group, select Saved to disk.
                     Save the file to your Mac.
                     Select Continue.
          Upload and install certificate
             1. Sign in to your developer account at https://developer.apple.com        by selecting the
               Account tab.
             2. Go to Certificates, IDs & Profiles > Certificates  .
             3. Select + to create a new certificate.
             4. Select App Store and Ad Hoc > Continue.
                 ７ Note
                 If you have an Enterprise Developer Account, you'll have the option to create an
                 Enterprise Distribution certificate.
            5. Upload the Certificate Signing Request (CSR) file that you generated in the previous steps.
            6. Select Continue, and download the certificate to your Mac.
            7. Double-click the downloaded .cer file to install it in Keychain Access.
            8. Make note of the Name of the certificate (usually formatted as iPhone Distribution:
              Name (Team ID)). This value is the code signing identity needed for signing.
         Register devices for testing
            ７ Note
            This step is only necessary if you're distributing the app to external users. It's not required
            if the app is only for internal users.
            1. Sign in to your developer account at https://developer.apple.com    by selecting the
              Account tab.
             2. Go to Certificates, IDs & Profiles > Devices  .
             3. Select + to register one or more devices.
             4. Enter the Device Name and Device ID (UDID).
             5. Select Save.
                  Tip
                 You can register multiple devices at once by uploading a list of UDIDs.
         Create iOS Provisioning Profile
             1. Sign in to your developer account at https://developer.apple.com     and select the
               Account tab.
             2. Go to Certificates, IDs & Profiles > Profiles .
             3. Select + to create a new profile.
             4. Select Ad Hoc > Continue.
        ７ Note
        For production use, select the App Store distribution method.
      5. Select the App ID you created earlier, then select Continue.
      6. Select the certificate you created earlier, then select Continue.
       7. Select all the test devices where you want to install your app, then select Continue.
       8. Name your provisioning profile and note down the name.
       9. Select Generate and download the profile to your Mac.
      10. Double-click the downloaded file (*.mobileprovision) to register it with Xcode.
     Sign the iOS Archive
       1. Download and unzip the iOS-Archive.zip file from your Azure blob storage. This creates a
        folder named after the Bundle ID. In the example below, the Bundle ID is
        com.single.wrap.
       2. For enterprise signing only: Open the file Distribution-exportOptions.plist with Xcode
        and change the value for the method field to enterprise.
         ７ Note
         Enterprise signing is not supported with Key Vault signing.
       3. Open Terminal and change directory to the unzipped folder.
       4. Enter pwsh to start PowerShell in the terminal.
       5. Run the PowerShell script with your certificate and provisioning profile information:
         ./SignAndGenerateIPA.ps1 -CodeSigningIdentity "YOUR_CODE_SIGNING_IDENTITY" -
         ProvisioningProfilePath "PATH_TO_PROVISIONING_PROFILE"
         ７ Note
         To find your CodeSigningIdentity value, right-click on the .mobileprovision file,
         select More Info > Preview. Look for the Name field under Certificates.
          Tip
         The ProvisioningProfilePath is the path to the .mobileprovision file you downloaded.
         For example: /Users/username/Downloads/MyProvisioningProfile.mobileprovision
      6. When the script completes, a .ipa file is created (for example, com.single.wrap.ipa).
         ） Important
         If the script fails, delete the unzipped folder and files as they might be corrupted.
         Unzip iOS-Archive.zip again before retrying.
     Distribute the app
     Install the .ipa file on registered devices using the Finder app.
     For enterprise distribution with Microsoft Intune:
        Add an iOS/iPadOS line-of-business app to Microsoft Intune
        Give your app access to the Intune app protection service
     See also
        Wrap overview
        Manual code sign on Android
        Frequently asked questions for wrap
        Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps
         Code sign for Android
         07/30/2025
         This article explains how to manually code sign your Android (APK) app for Power Apps wrap.
         Sign your app for Android if you select Android as one of the platforms when you create and
         build your wrap project.
            ） Important
            To sign an AAB app for Google Play distribution, see Sign your app  .
         Before you begin
         Required software
         Before you begin, install and set up:
              Android Studio
              OpenSSL
              apksigner tool    (included with Android Studio)
         Prerequisites
         You need:
              The application name to create the hash key.
              The latest APK file to sign in.
            ７ Note
            Use the .jks extension for manual signing and the .pfx extension for automatic signing.
         Generate key and signature hash
            ７ Note
        Skip to Manual signing if you already generated keys and the signature hash when you
        created the app registration.
      Set up environment variables
      If you don't set environment variables:
        1. Download and install Android Studio and OpenSSL.
        2. Add keytool and openssl to your PATH environment variable:
             Add C:\Program Files\Android\Android Studio\jbr\bin to your PATH.
             Add the path of openssl.exe (for example, C:\Program Files\OpenSSL-Win64\bin) to
             your PATH.
      For manual signing process
      Generate signature hash key and certificate
      Run this command in the command prompt:
        keytool -genkey -alias powerappswrap -keyalg RSA -keystore powerappswrap.jks -
        keysize 2048 -validity 10000
      When prompted:
        1. Enter a password for your keystore.
        2. Enter your name, organization, location, and other required details.
        3. Confirm the information.
      Run this command to generate key and certificate:
        keytool -exportcert -alias powerappswrap -keystore powerappswrap.jks | openssl 
        sha1 -binary | openssl base64
      When prompted, enter the keystore password you created earlier.
                                                                 
      Parameters explained:
                                                          ﾉ
                                                            Expand table
       Parameter       Description
       genkey          Command to generate a key
       alias           Alias for the keystore entry
       keyalg          Key algorithm name
       keystore        Name of the keystore
       keysize         Size of each key
       validity        Validity of the key in days
       exportcert      Reads the certificate from the keystore
       openssl         Generates SHA1 key for Android
      For automatic key vault signing process
      Generate signature hash key and certificate
      Run this command in the command prompt:
       keytool -genkey -alias powerappswrap -keyalg RSA -keystore powerappswrap.pfx -
       keysize 2048 -validity 10000
      When prompted:
       1. Enter a password for your keystore.
       2. Enter your name, organization, location, and other required details.
       3. Confirm the information.
      Run this command to generate key and certificate:
       keytool -exportcert -alias powerappswrap -keystore powerappswrap.pfx | openssl 
       sha1 -binary | openssl base64
      When prompted, enter the keystore password you created earlier.
                                                         
      Parameters explained:
                                                   ﾉ Expand table
      Parameter     Description
      genkey        Generates a key.
      alias         Alias for the keystore entry.
      keyalg        Key algorithm name.
       Parameter      Description
       keystore       Name of the keystore.
       keysize        Size of each key.
       validity       Validity of the key in days.
       exportcert     Reads the certificate from the keystore
       openssl        Generates SHA1 key for Android
      Manual signing of APK package (Not for KV
      signing)
      Follow these steps if you don't use automatic sign-in during wrap or if you try to upload an
      AAB file for Play Store. To avoid repeating this process, use automatic sign-in when possible.
      Locate the apksigner tool
        1. Open Android Studio.
        2. Go to Tools > SDK Manager > Android SDK Location to find your SDK path.
        3. In the SDK directory, navigate to:
             build-tools > [version number] > find apksigner.bat (Windows) or apksigner
             (Mac/Linux)
             Or: build-tools > [version number] > lib > find apksigner.jar
                                                                                                                 
          Sign the APK file
          Run this command to sign your APK:
             apksigner.bat sign --ks PATH_TO_KEYSTORE --ks-key-alias KEY_ALIAS PATH_TO_APK
          Parameters explained:
                                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
            Parameter         Description
            ks                Path to your keystore file (for example, C:\Users\name\Desktop\powerappswrap.jks)
            ks-key-alias      The alias you used when generating the key (for example, powerappswrap)
            PATH_TO_APK       Full path to your APK file (for example, C:\Users\name\Downloads\MyApp.apk)
          When prompted, enter the keystore password.
          Example:
           apksigner.bat sign --ks C:\Users\name\Desktop\powerappswrap.jks --ks-key-alias 
           powerappswrap C:\Users\name\Desktop\MyApp.apk
         Verify the signature
         After signing, verify the APK signature with:
           apksigner.bat verify --verbose PATH_TO_APK
         A successful verification confirms your APK is properly signed and ready for distribution.
         For more information, see Android Studio command line tools: apksigner   .
         Distribute the app
         After signing your app, you can distribute it using several methods:
         Distribution options
              Microsoft Intune: To distribute using Microsoft Intune, see Add an Android line-of-
              business app to Microsoft Intune.
              Intune app protection: To give your app access to the Intune app protection service, see
              Give your app access to the Intune app protection service.
              Direct distribution: You can also distribute the signed APK directly to users for manual
              installation.
         See also
              Wrap overview
              Manually Signing the APK - Xamarin
              Manual code sign on iOS
              Frequently asked questions for wrap
              Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps
          Code signing process for AAB file
          06/16/2025
          This article explains how to manually code sign an AAB file.
          Prerequisite
              1. Set up Android Studio     .
              2. Install bundletool for converting AAB file to APK file. You can download the latest version
                from the official site   .
              3. Install jarsigner for signing in the AAB file. You can install jarsigner by downloading and
                setting up the Java Development Kit (JDK)        .
          Signing process for AAB file
             ７ Note
             You need to sign the AAB file even if you select the automatic signing process in the wrap
             wizard.
          To sign an AAB file, follow these steps:
              1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
              2. Go to the directory where jarsigner is installed.
              3. Run the commands shown in the image.
                Replace the placeholders: - <path-to-your-keystore>.jks – Path to your .jks keystore file -
                 <output-signed-aab-file>.aab – Output file name. - <input-unsigned-aab-file>.aab –
                Unsigned .aab file. - <bundleid> – Bundle ID used while wrapping.
          Convert AAB to APK file for manual debugging
     To convert an AAB file to an APK file, follow these steps:
       1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
       2. Run the commands shown in the screenshot.
        Replace the placeholders: - <path-to-signed-aab-file>.aab – Path to the signed AAB file.
        -  <output-directory> – Output directory for the .apks file.
        Sign the APK if you use the manual signing process. For more information, see Code sign
        for Android - Power Apps.
     See also
        Manual code sign for iOS
        Manual code sign for Android
        Set up Azure Key Vault for wrap wizard
        code signing
        08/19/2025
        Azure Key Vault is a cloud service that securely stores secrets like certificates, passwords,
        encryption keys, and other sensitive data. Use Key Vault to manage certificates and secrets for
        automated code signing in wrap wizard. For more information, see Introduction to Azure Key
        Vault.
        This guide explains how new users create and configure an Azure Key Vault.
        Prerequisites
        Before you begin, ensure you have the following:
             A Microsoft Entra subscription to create a key vault.
             Admin access to your Azure tenant.
             An Apple Developer account    enrolled in the Apple Developer Program or Apple
             Enterprise Developer Program.
             An Apple distribution certificate and either an ad-hoc provisioning profile or an enterprise
             provisioning profile.
        Step 1: Create an Azure Key Vault
        If you do not already have a Key Vault, follow the steps in Create a vault using the Azure portal.
        Step 2: Create a service principal for wrap Key Vault
        access
        A service principal is required so wrap wizard can access your Key Vault.
           1. Sign in to your tenant as an admin.
           2. Open PowerShell and run the following command:
                Connect-AzureAD -TenantId <your tenant ID>
                New-AzureADServicePrincipal -AppId 4e1f8dc5-5a42-45ce-a096-700fa485ba20 -
                DisplayName "Wrap KeyVault Access App"
     Step 3: Assign Reader Role to the Service Principal
     Give the service principal permission to read your Key Vault.
       1. In the Azure portal, navigate to your Key Vault.
       2. Select Access control (IAM).
       3. Select Add > Add role assignment.
       4. On the Members tab, select Job function roles, and then choose Reader.
       5. Select Select member, search for "Wrap KeyVault Access App", and select it.
       6. Select Review + assign.
                                                       
     Repeat these steps to add user access permissions to your account.
     Step 4: Configure access policies for Key Vault
       1. Go to Key Vault settings.
       2. In Access configuration, select Vault access policies.
       3. Add a policy for the service principal and your user account.
           For Secret permissions and Certificate permissions, select Get and List.
                                                       
     Step 5: Upload Certificates and Secrets
     You need platform-specific certificates and secrets for Android and iOS apps.
     For Android
        Generate a .pfx certificate file.
        Upload it to the Certificates section of your Key Vault.
        For guidance, see Generate keys.
                                                   
       ７ Note
       Ensure the certificate name is included in the tag step, and its password matches the store
       pass parameter you set when creating the .pfx file.
     For iOS
       1. Install your .cer file using Keychain Access. For more information, see Create the
        distribution certificate.
       2. Export the certificate as a .p12 file and rename its extension to .pfx (required by Key
        Vault).
       3. Upload the .pfx file to your Key Vault and provide the password you set for the .p12 file.
       4. Create a provisioning profile. For more information, see Create the provisioning profile.
       5. Encode the provisioning profile to base64:
           On Mac, run: base64 -i example.mobileprovision
           On Windows, run: certutil -encode data.txt tmp.b64
       6. Upload the base64 string as a secret in Key Vault and the .pfx file as a certificate.
                                                       
     Step 6: Add Certificate Tags
     After uploading your iOS or Android certificates, add three tags:
        Tag name: Use your app’s bundle ID.
        Tag value: Use the name of the uploaded certificate.
     Use the same bundle ID that you’ll use in the wrap wizard.
                                                     
     Reference Video
     Watch a walkthrough video: How to configure access to key vault
     Troubleshooting
     If you run into issues, see Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps.
     See also
        Wrap overview
        Code sign for iOS
        Code sign for Android
        Code sign for Google Play Store
        Frequently asked questions for wrap
        Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps
              Use deep links with wrapped mobile
              apps
              Article • 12/06/2022
              Deep links let users move from one application to another on computers and mobile
              devices. For example, a mobile app can deep link to Facebook to sign in. Deep linking an
              email address could open an email app to allow users to start composing a message. A
              website could use a deep link to an app store to start download for a specfic mobile
              app.
              You can deep link to a wrapped native mobile app from other apps. Deep links for
              wrapped mobile apps should start with the following:
              ms-mobile-apps:///providers/Microsoft.PowerApps/apps/<appID>?tenantId=<tenantId>
                                                                                            ﾉ
                                                                                                Expand table
               Parameter                    Description
               <app-id>                     Opens the correct app module
               <tenantId>                   Connects to the correct tenant
              For information on how to deep link into other apps in Power Apps, see Use deep links
              with Power Apps mobile.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
     Benefits and limitations of Wrap
     06/17/2025
     Wrap gives app makers benefits like improved adoption, better branding, and flexible
     distribution options. But it also has some limitations you need to consider.
     Benefits of wrap
       1. Improved app adoption: Users easily find and use your app by searching for its name in
        the App Store or Play Store. This direct access streamlines the experience and increases
        adoption rates.
       2. Enhanced branding flexibility: Makers customize their app's branding, improving both
        distribution and user engagement.
       3. Custom distribution channels: Distribute your apps through preferred channels, so you
        have more control and can reach your target audience more effectively, instead of relying
        only on standard platforms.
       4. Power Apps mobile for frontline workers (FLWs): Power Apps Mobile is for frontline
        workers. The wrap APK lets guest accounts sign in, so frontline workers outside your
        organization can use it. For details, see Frequently asked questions for wrap: Why am I
        not able to sign into my wrapped application?.
       5. Access without MFA or Intune: You can use the Power Apps mobile app without
        multifactor authentication (MFA) or Microsoft Intune if your organization's conditional
        access policies allow it.
       6. Offline features: Wrap apps support offline capabilities.
     Limitations of Wrap
       1. Logout button: There's no visible sign out button.
         ７ Note
         Users can select and hold the indented application to sign out. Makers should let
         users know about this method.
       2. Push notifications: Push notifications aren't supported.
       3. Navigation between apps: You can't go directly from a specific screen in one app to a
        specific screen in another app. Only the home screen of the other app opens.
       4. APK size limit: APK files distributed through the Google Play Store are limited to 100 MB.
        To support larger apps (up to 150 MB), create an AAB file during the wrap process.
      5. Android hardware back button: The Android hardware back button doesn't always sync
       with the application back button.
      6. Feedback: You can't provide feedback in the wrap app.
      7. Surveys: Surveys aren't available for wrap users.
      8. Sovereign cloud: Wrap doesn't support sovereign cloud environments.
      9. Full image view (offline): Offline-enabled wrap apps only show image thumbnails, not full
       image views.
     10. VPN: The wrap wizard doesn't support creating a wrapped app while you're connected to
       a VPN. Updates are in progress.
    See also
       Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps
       Frequently Asked Questions
        Frequently asked questions for wrap
        Frequently asked questions about the wrap feature are listed below.
        Can single tenant customers use wrap with
        Power Apps?
        Yes. Both single tenant and multitenant customers can use wrap. When registering your app
        manually in Azure, ensure you select the correct account type. See App registration for directions.
        Does the wrap feature in Power Apps
        support Customer-Managed Keys (CMK) or
        Lockbox capabilities?
        No. The wrap feature in Power Apps doesn't support Customer-Managed Keys (CMK) or Lockbox.
        Wrap uses Azure DevOps build pipelines, and customer assets might be exposed to Microsoft
        service operators during the build process.
        Can I create mobile apps with Power Apps?
        Yes. See Creating mobile apps with Power Apps.
        If I create a mobile app with Power Apps, does
        Microsoft release it for me?
        No. Microsoft wraps your app in a native mobile app shell for you to digitally sign and distribute.
        How do I digitally sign my mobile app?
        You can automatically sign your mobile app package in Step 2 of the wrap wizard if you have set
        up Azure Key Vault. For manual signing, see Android, iOS, and Google Play Store   .
        Can I use Xcode to digitally sign my mobile
        apps for iOS?
        No. Signing your mobile app with Xcode isn't supported in wrap. To digitally sign your wrapped
        mobile app package for iOS, see Code sign for iOS.
        How do I distribute my mobile app?
        You can use Microsoft Intune, Google Play  , or Apple Business Manager   .
        How do I configure my mobile app for
        distribution through Microsoft Intune?
        Wrap wizard automatically configures your app for distribution with Microsoft Intune. To
        troubleshoot, you can manually grant all the canvas app(s) that you intend to wrap Microsoft
        Mobile Application Management API permission manually. More information: Configure the API
        permissions for your app manually.
        Do I need to rewrap and redistribute my
        mobile app frequently?
        Power Apps Mobile is updated periodically. To ensure compatibility and benefit from bug fixes
        and new features, we recommend that you rewrap and redistribute your mobile app at least
        monthly.
        Do I need to rewrap and redistribute my
        mobile app after making changes to the canvas
        app(s) included in the package?
        No. Published changes to the included canvas app(s) are downloaded automatically by existing,
        released versions of your mobile app. However, we recommend that you rewrap and redistribute
        your mobile app on a monthly basis to benefit from platform bug fixes, updates, and new
        features.
    How do I update the icons and colors in my
    mobile app?
    Update icons and colors by rewrapping your apps with new assets and redistributing the updated
    mobile app package.
    How do I add or remove canvas apps in my
    wrapped mobile app?
    Add or remove canvas apps by rewrapping your mobile app package with the desired set of apps
    and redistributing your mobile package.
    What are Primary and Secondary apps in the
    context of wrap?
    The Primary app provides the main experience of your mobile app. Secondary apps are bundled
    for performance reasons and must be linked from your primary app. See wrap multiple canvas
    apps together.
    What are the advantages of including
    Secondary apps in the bundle, if I can still
    Launch() them without doing so?
    Including Secondary apps in the bundle provides better launch performance when opening them
    for the first time. However, it's optional. If you have many Secondary apps, you may choose not
    to bundle them to reduce the total app size.
    Can I add apps that use Power BI data to wrap?
    Yes. Wrap wizard automatically configures your mobile app to be able to use Power BI. To
    troubleshoot, you can manually grant Power BI API permission to all your apps that use Power BI
    data. More information: Configure the API permissions for your app manually.
    Can I deep link into a wrapped mobile app?
    Yes. You can use ms-mobile-apps:///providers/Microsoft.PowerApps/apps/<appID>?tenantId=
    <tenantId> schema to deep link into your wrapped mobile apps. Refer to Using deep links with
    wrapped mobile apps for more information.
    Why do I see this error message when I
    try to open my wrapped native app on a
    mobile device: You can't get there from here
    error message
    Your organization might have a Require Approved Client App conditional access policy that
    restricts access to mobile apps. To fix this issue, see Edit your conditional access policy.
    Can I create B2C mobile apps with
    Power Apps?
    No. Power Apps is a platform for business applications and uses Microsoft Entra authentication.
    The wrap feature wraps existing canvas apps for the same set of end users.
    Do I need a premium license to package
    the app?
    No, you don't need a premium license for wrap. However, if your APK uses certain connectors,
    you will need to pay according to the requirements of those connectors.
    Can I delete wrap projects?
    No, wrap projects can't be deleted but you can delete the project APK files from your storage
    location.
    How can I ensure that customers outside the
    home tenant can't access the app even if I
    enable multitenant access during registration?
    Users outside the home tenant can't access wrap projects unless both the Azure admin and the
    maker explicitly share the app with the user. The app ensures proper data separation across
    organizations by embedding the tenant identifier in the authentication token.
    Can we allow users from outside home tenant
    to access wrap projects?
    The Wrap App supports multi-tenancy. To enable this feature, the Azure admin must:
      1. Add users from outside the home tenant as guests in Azure.
      2. Include these guests in the Azure Conditional Access process.
      3. The maker must share the app with these guest IDs within Power Apps.
    Why am I not able to Sign into my
    wrapped Application?
      1. Verify if the user has access to the PowerApps application. More information: Share a canvas
       app with your organization
      2. If access is confirmed, check the app's Azure conditional policies. Admin access is required
       to review these policies. More information: View applied Conditional Access details in the
       Microsoft Entra activity logs
      3. To troubleshoot sign-in errors, copy the correlation ID from the mobile screen where the
       sign-in is failing and refer How to troubleshoot Microsoft Entra sign-in errors to understand
       the error and the failing policies.
      4. Check Microsoft Entra authentication and authorization error codes.
      5. One common error code is 50194 (tag- 9n555). During the app registration stage, the
       supported account type isn't configured for multi-tenant. Configure it to support multi-
       tenant.
    When do you need to re-wrap?
       If you're an existing customer who has already created and successfully distributed a
       wrapped app, you don't need to go through the wrapping process again. To ensure users
       receive the latest published changes, follow the steps mentioned in Power Apps for Makers:
       Get App Versions.
       For new customers, we recommend re-wrapping if you have completed all the registration
       steps mentioned in Use the wrap wizard to build your mobile app: Register app and have
              either manually or automatically completed the sign-in process mentioned in Use the wrap
              wizard to build your mobile app: Sign your mobile app package manually.
              To ensure platform changes benefit end users, we recommend re-wrapping monthly and
              distributing the updated app to users.
        How to find your Azure admin?
              Go to the Microsoft Entra roles and administration portal. More information: Microsoft Entra
              admin center
              Search for global administration in the search bar.
              Select the Active assignments tab.
              Review the list of owners for the active assignments.
        Why is Azure key vault a mandatory step?
        The Azure key vault securely stores the access key needed for Azure blob storage.
        Do you need to pay for Azure key vault &
        Azure blob storage?
        Yes. See Key Vault pricing   .
        What should I do if I don't have access to the
        resource group while creating the key vault?
        Contact your Azure tenant admin to create a key vault for you or request permission.
        How can Entra B2B guest users access the
        wrapped apps?
            1. Add users from outside the home tenant as guests in Azure. See Quickstart: Add a guest
              user and send an invitation.
            2. Include these guests in the Azure Conditional Access process. Share the app with these
              guest IDs in Power Apps. See Share a canvas app with your organization.
            3. Replace the app ID and the user account in the following link: ms-mobile-
              apps:///providers/Microsoft.PowerApps/apps/<appID>?tenantId=<tenantID>
      4. Share the link with your client.
      5. Install the APK on Android and the IPA on iOS.
      6. Open the weblink and enter the external IDs to sign in.
    How do I view and download my app binaries
    from Dataverse after wrapping my app?
    When you configure Power Apps Wrap to use Dataverse storage, your build binaries (APK, AAB,
    and IPA files) are stored as file attachments in the msdyn_powerappswrapbuild table in your
    environment. You can access the attachments in three ways, depending on your scenario.
      1. Using the View builds page (recommended):
       The simplest way to download a build is directly from the Power Apps Wrap interface:
        a. Open your wrap project and select View builds.
       b. Locate the build you want in the list.
        c. Select Download next to the build.
      2. Querying builds with the Dataverse Web API
       For automation, CI/CD pipelines, or custom portals, you can query the
       msdyn_powerappswrapbuild table using OData against your environment's Web API endpoint:
       https://{your-environment}.crm.dynamics.com/api/data/v9.2/. The calling user or
       application user must have Read privileges on the msdyn_powerappswrapbuild table.
       Retrieve all builds, newest first: GET /msdyn_powerappswrapbuilds?
       $select=msdyn_powerappswrapbuildid,name,msdyn_buildid,msdyn_platformtype,msdyn_apptype
       ,createdon&$orderby=createdon desc
       Retrieve builds for a specific mobile app: GET /msdyn_powerappswrapbuilds?
       $filter=_msdyn_mobileappid_value eq{mobileAppId}&$orderby=createdon desc
       Filter by artifact type (APK, AAB, or IPA): GET /msdyn_powerappswrapbuilds?
       $filter=msdyn_apptype eq 'APK'
       Filter by build ID: GET /msdyn_powerappswrapbuilds?$filter=msdyn_buildid eq '{buildId}'
       Retrieve a single build by alternate key: GET
       /msdyn_powerappswrapbuilds(msdyn_buildid='{buildId}', msdyn_mobileappid={mobileAppId})
      3. Downloading artifacts programmatically using a SAS URL
       The actual binary files aren't returned in OData query results — they're stored as file column
       data. To download a binary programmatically, call the standard Dataverse GetFileSasUrl
       message to generate a time-limited download URL, then fetch the file from that URL.
       Key things to know:
          - The SAS URL is valid for one hour from the time it's generated. 
          - The URL provides anonymous access — anyone with the URL can download the file 
        during the valid window, so generate URLs on demand rather than storing them. 
          - The user or application user calling GetFileSasUrl must have Read access to 
        the wrap build record. 
          - GetFileSasUrl isn't supported in environments using self-managed database 
        encryption keys (BYOK). If your environment uses BYOK, migrate to customer-
        managed keys (CMK) first.              
       Web API request:
        POST [Organization URI]/api/data/v9.2/GetFileSasUrl            
          Content-Type: application/json 
          Accept: application/json  
        {
          "Target": 
            { 
              "@odata.type": "Microsoft.Dynamics.CRM.msdyn_powerappswrapbuild",            
              "msdyn_powerappswrapbuildid": "{recordId}"        
            }, 
          "FileAttributeName": "msdyn_artifact" 
          } 
       Response:
        { 
          "FileName": "build-2026-05-17.apk", 
          "FileSizeInBytes": 24576000, 
          "MimeType": "application/vnd.android.package-archive", 
          "SasUrl": "https://{storageaccount}.blob.core.windows.net/{container}/{blob}?
        sv=..." 
        } 
        SDK for .NET example:
         using Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk; 
         using Microsoft.Crm.Sdk.Messages; 
         var request = new GetFileSasUrlRequest 
           { 
             Target = new EntityReference("msdyn_powerappswrapbuild", recordId), 
             FileAttributeName = "msdyn_artifact" 
           }; 
         var response = (GetFileSasUrlResponse)orgService.Execute(request); 
         var sasUrl = response.Result.SasUrl; 
         var fileName = response.Result.FileName; 
     See also
     Troubleshoot issues with the wrap feature in Power Apps
      Last updated on 06/12/2026
      Troubleshoot common issues when using
      the wrap feature
      08/04/2025
      This guide provides solutions to common issues you might encounter when using the wrap
      feature in Microsoft Power Apps.
      Issue 1: Wrap build fails
      If your wrap build fails, try the following actions:
      Verify image formats
      Ensure that all images in your wrap project are in PNG format. Using other formats can cause
      the build to fail. Use an image converter to convert your images to .png format.
        ） Important
        Renaming a file extension to .png doesn't convert the image to PNG format.
      Check Azure key vault setup
         Ensure you create an Azure service principal and assign the correct role.
         For more information, see Azure key vault for wrap in Power Apps.
      Your key vault must contain:
         For iOS: two tags, one certificate, and one secret.
         For Android: one tag and one certificate.
      Issue 2: Wrap button is disabled
      Confirm you have edit permissions for the app and try again. For a list of requirements, see
      Permissions and access requirements for wrap.
     Issue 3: Unable to save your wrap project or trigger
     a build
     Update to the latest version of the wrap solution and try again.
     Issue 4: Unable to install a wrapped mobile app
     Ensure your app is properly signed by configuring a key vault during the build process or by
     signing the app manually.
     For more information, see:
        Set up Key vault for automated signing
        Code sign for iOS
        Code sign for Android
     Additionally, verify your device meets the minimum requirements.
     Issue 5: Can't sign in or see data in a wrapped app
     If you can't sign in or see data in your wrapped app, try the following actions:
     Verify API permissions and access
        Ensure all required API permissions are configured and that admin permissions are
        granted.
                                                        
        Ensure the Add-AdminAllowedThirdPartyApps script runs successfully.
        For more information, see Allow registered apps in your environment.
     Check account types and redirect URIs
        Verify the Microsoft Entra app type is set to Multitenant and that the supported account
        type is Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra ID tenant).
        Configure proper redirect URIs for iOS and Android:
          For Android, confirm the hash is correct.
          For more information, see Configure platform settings and redirect URIs.
     Issue 6: Fail to sign in to a wrapped app
       1. Ensure the user has access to the app. For more information, see Share a canvas app with
        your organization.
       2. If the user has app access but still can't sign in, check the Conditional Access policies in
        the Microsoft Entra admin center.
       3. To troubleshoot sign-in errors, copy the correlation ID from the mobile screen where the
        sign-in failed and refer to How to troubleshoot Microsoft Entra sign-in errors to
        understand the error and the failed policies.
       4. Check Microsoft Entra authentication and authorization error codes.
         Other issues
         If your issue isn't covered here, or if the preceding steps don't resolve your problem, search for
         more support resources     or contact Microsoft support    with detailed steps to reproduce the
         problem.
         Collect diagnostic information
         For sign-in issues, you can collect session details and include them when you contact Microsoft
         support:
              For the wrap wizard: On the sign-in screen, tap the gear icon in the upper-right corner
              and select Session Details.
              For mobile devices: After opening the app, press and hold the screen, and then select
              Session Details.
      Use code view for canvas app controls
      Article • 05/21/2025
      Use the code view feature to look at the underlying code for each control on your app's
      screens. The code uses an improved format that's a subset of YAML.
      With code view you can:
         View the code for each control on your screen.
         Copy the code for a control and share it outside of Power Apps Studio.
         Paste the code for a control and create a new control based on it.
      View, copy, and paste code
      Code view shows the code for the selected control and all its child controls.
      Code view lets you copy and paste code to any screen in your app or outside of Power Apps to
      duplicate the control. This feature is helpful when controls are highly customized and you want
      to share or duplicate them.
      View code
       1. Open your app for editing in Power Apps Studio.
       2. Right-click the control in the tree view or on the screen, and then select View code.
      Tip
     Use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+F to find a specific string in the code.
    Copy and paste code
      1. To copy the code of a selected control:
         Use the menu to copy.
         Use the shortcut  Ctrl + C .
         When viewing your code in the code view popup, select Copy code.
      2. To add a new control from the code:
         Use the menu to paste.
         Use the shortcut  Ctrl + V .
      ） Important
      Use the YAML format that Power Apps Studio generates. The code is validated before the
      new control is created.
     Browser clipboard access required
     To paste code into Power Apps Studio using code view, your browser must have access to the
     clipboard. If you encounter issues pasting code, check your browser settings and ensure
     clipboard permissions are enabled for the site.
     The first time you paste code, your browser will prompt you to grant clipboard access. Approve
     this request to enable pasting functionality in Power Apps Studio.
            Tip
           If pasting doesn't work, check if clipboard access to Power Apps is blocked in your
           browser. In Microsoft Edge, you can manually add https://make.powerapps.com   to the
           allowed sites for clipboard access in your browser settings.
         Known limitations
              You can't copy and paste or view the code for the App Object.
              You can't edit the code in the code view.
         Related information
              Get started with formulas in canvas apps
              Use Find and Replace in the formula bar
              Formula reference - canvas apps
              Power Fx YAML formula grammar
              Understand app functionality through code view (video)
         ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
          View source code files for canvas apps
          10/23/2025
          Use the source code for a canvas app to review changes made by makers in Power Apps
          Studio. The generated canvas app YAML code is read-only and can't be modified. Any changes
          to the file are ignored and might be lost.
                  The YAML schema is in active development, and the content might be incomplete.
                  The current static schema for *.pa.yaml files is available here  .
          Power Fx and YAML are the languages used for Power Apps source code. YAML is valued for its
          human-readable format and benefits from a wide array of editors, tools, and libraries for
          manipulation.
          Access source code files
          You have access to the source code files if you're using the Power Platform Git Integration,
          eliminating the need for .msapp files.
          The Power Apps Studio creates the source code for canvas apps, which is stored as *.pa.yaml
          files within the .msapp file. The .msapp file is a binary file that contains a collection of files,
          including the source code.
             Tip
            To effectively use application lifecycle management (ALM), it's recommended to use
            solutions. Canvas apps package doesn't support ALM and should only be used for basic
            import and export capabilities when Dataverse isn't available.
          You can also get the source code files either from the .msapp file or by using Power Platform
          CLI.
          The *.pa.yaml files can be found in the \Src folder of the extracted .msapp.
            ） Important
            Only files located in the \Src directory of the extracted .msapp are intended for use with
            source control. The JSON files in the .msapp shouldn't be used as source code because
            those aren't stable between save and load cycles.
      Download and Extract the pa.yaml files using Power Platform
      CLI
      Connect to your environment using Power Platform CLI and then use the following commands:
        1. To list the canvas apps in your current environment, use the command: pac canvas list.
        2. To extract the source code files, use the command: pac canvas download with the
          parameter -d.
      Extract source code files from a .msapp file
      To extract source code files from a .msapp file, you have two options:
        1. Manually unzip the .msapp file.
        2. Alternatively, you can use the following command:
        PowerShell
         Expand-Archive -Path "C:\path\to\yourFile.msapp" -DestinationPath 
        "C:\path\to\destination"
      File structure for a .msapp file
      For older .msapp files without the \src folder, follow these steps to generate source code files:
        1. Import and resave and download the new .msapp in Power Apps Studio.
        2. After that, you can proceed to extract the source code files.
      In the \src folder, find the following files and folders:
          App.pa.yaml: Represents the App.
          [screen Name].pa.yaml: One file for each screen, representing the screen.
          \Component: A folder containing one file for each component, represented as
          [component Name].pa.yaml.
      Only *.pa.yaml files within the \src folder can be used as source code. Any other file shouldn't
      be used as source code.
      Power Apps YAML schema versions
      Currently, the only active schema version of Power Apps source code is Source Code
      (*.pa.yaml). The following table shows the other historical formats:
                                                                                             ﾉ Expand table
           Format         File          Description
           name           extension
           Experimental   *.fx.yaml     Retired. Version used by the experimental Power Apps Git version control
                                        and pac canvas unpack—no longer in development.
           Early preview  -             Retired. The version used by code view, copy code, and paste code.
                                        There's no version information in this schema.
           Source code    *.pa.yaml     Active. Includes enhancements and version details for source control.
                          files
          Experimental format (*.fx.yaml)
          This schema is retired.
          This schema describes an experimental format used by the Power Platform CLI to process and
          convert canvas apps into a source code format. This format isn't actively developed anymore.
          You can't directly convert *.fx.yaml files to the new formats. To convert older apps, package the
          canvas app as a .msapp file and import it into Power Apps Studio.
          Preview
          This schema is retired.
          This version was used by Code view during the preview period. It is designed to create canvas
          apps in Power Apps Studio, letting you easily copy and paste controls. In this version, the
          source code is used in Power Apps Studio instead of being converted, like the experimental
          format.
          The format during preview was temporary and is no longer in use. You cannot paste code from
          the preview format.
          Here are the changes made from the experimental format:
             1. ZIndex property removal: The ZIndex property is removed. Instead, a screen is
               represented as an array of controls. The order of controls determines their stacking order.
               Normal controls are ordered in ascending order, while responsive controls are ordered in
               descending order.
             2. JSON object representation replacement: The "As" syntax is no longer used to define the
               control type. Instead, the left side of the control's name identifier remains unique. Only
        properties that differ from the default values are serialized. Two new properties define the
        control type and default values:
        Control: Represents the control type in YAML.
        Variant: Identifies a variant of a control type, which might alter default property values,
        add or remove properties, or modify the behavior or layout of the control.
     These properties are used for instantiating controls and don't accept Power Fx expressions.
     Source code (*.pa.yaml)
      ） Important
         The YAML source code for canvas apps is actively being developed. The content may
         be incomplete and subject to change.
         The .pa.yaml files are read-only and should only be used to review changes made in
         Power Apps Studio. These files are not used when an app is loading.
         External editing, merging, and conflict resolution is supported only in Power
         Platform Git Integration.
     This schema is designed for source control purposes and allows the use of a single YAML file.
     Updates from the previous format include:
       1. Grouping of Top-Level Node Elements:
           The top-level keywords "App" and "Screens" are examples of how elements are now
           grouped in a top-level node.
       2. Control Version Specification:
           You can now specify the version of a control using the Control Keyword followed by
           the @ operator. If no version is specified, the most current version of the control is
           used. The version is used to deserialize the properties of the source code. Runtime
           version of the control is defined by the authoring version.
       3. Simplified Variant Names:
           Not all controls require a variant.
       4. Consistent ZIndex for All Controls:
                    All controls now use an ascending order to determine the ZIndex value, starting
                    from 1. This behavior aligns with the CSS 2 spec   .
         Disconnect Git version control to edit
         canvas apps
         Article • 05/14/2025
         Git version control for editing apps has been removed and is no longer supported.
         If your app currently uses this feature, follow these steps to disconnect it:
            1. Open your canvas app for editing in Power Apps Studio. On the command bar, select
               Settings.
            2. Select Git version control and then select Disconnect.
         If you are using PASopa, download your app from your Git provider and pack the .zip file to an
         .msapp file   . Once your .msapp file is uploaded to Power Apps, follow the steps above to
         disconnect.
            ７ Note
            Git version control is replaced with the source control integration feature. More
            information: Source code integration
     Canvas apps for enterprise developers,
     partners, and ISVs
     As a developer, you can extend canvas apps in Power Apps, enabling even more powerful
     solutions for organizations and customers.
     Canvas apps for enterprise developers
     As an enterprise developer, empower your organization to build robust, tailored solutions on
     Power Apps:
        Build custom connectors: Develop custom connectors to connect to your organization's
        data and web services. Learn more
        Create canvas apps using Power Platform CLI: Use Microsoft Power Platform CLI to
        create, pack (preview), and unpack (preview) canvas apps using a custom connector. More
        information: Power Platform CLI - pac canvas
        Build Azure Functions: Craft Azure Functions to extend apps with custom server-side
        logic. Learn more
        Embed apps: Embed apps directly into your website experiences to create integrated
        solutions, surfacing apps where people in your organization already do their work. Learn
        more
        Build offline-capable apps: Develop offline-capable apps so your users are productive
        whether they are online or offline. Learn more
     Canvas apps for ISVs and Microsoft partners
     As a Microsoft partner or Independent Software Vendor (ISV), accelerate customer adoption by
     extending your products to integrate with your customers' data and business processes:
        Build and certify custom connectors: Bring your product into the Microsoft cloud by
        building a connector that enables Power Apps to talk to your service. Learn more
        List your solution on Microsoft Marketplace: Generate new leads for your business by
        building an app with Power Apps and publishing it to Microsoft Marketplace for new
        customers to find. Learn more
        Get started today for free: Sign-up for the Power Apps Developer Plan for free and start
        building apps in a dedicated developer environment. Learn more
      Last updated on 01/16/2026
              Custom connectors for canvas apps
              Article • 02/08/2023
              Without writing any code, you can build workflows and canvas apps with Azure Logic
              Apps , Power Automate , and Power Apps . To help you integrate your data and
              business processes, these services offer 180+ connectors - for Microsoft services and
              products, as well as other services, such as GitHub, Salesforce, and Twitter.
              Sometimes though, you might want to call APIs, services, and systems that aren't
              available as pre-built connectors. To support more tailored scenarios, you can build
              custom connectors with their own triggers and actions. We have a complete set of basic
              and advanced tutorials for custom connectors on the Connectors documentation site.
              We recommend that you start with the custom connector overview, but you can also go
              straight to the following topics for details on a specific area:
                    Create a custom connector from an OpenAPI definition
                    Create a custom connector from a Postman collection
                    Create a custom connector from scratch
                    Use a custom connector from Power Apps
                    Share custom connectors in your organization
                    Submit your connectors for Microsoft certification
                    Custom connector FAQ
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
            Integrate canvas apps into websites and
            other services
            Article • 03/12/2025
            The apps that you build are often most useful when they're available right where people
            do their work. By embedding canvas apps in an iframe, you can integrate those apps
            into websites and other services, such as Power BI or SharePoint.
            In this topic, we'll show you how to set parameters for app embedding; then we'll
            embed our Asset Ordering app in a website.
              ７ Note
                   Only Power Apps users in the same tenant can access the embedded app.
                   Embedding canvas apps in any native desktop application isn't supported,
                   which includes Andrioid and iOS. This excludes first-party integrations such as
                   Power Apps in Teams.
            You can also integrate canvas apps into SharePoint Online without using an iframe.
            More information: Use the Power Apps web part  .
            Set URI parameters for your app
