     Undo and redo
        Undo – undo the last action.
        Redo – repeat the last action.
     Cut, copy, and paste
        Cut – Cut the selection, and store it in the clipboard.
        Copy – Copy the selection, and store it in the clipboard.
        Paste - Paste the last cut, or copied selection from the clipboard.
     Add data
        Create a new table by selecting Create new table.
        Select any other existing tables from the current environment.
        Search and select a connector, such as SharePoint or SQL Server.
       New screen
       Add screens based on the available layouts.
       Layouts
       Select a new screen to add to the app based on the layout of the screen.
       Select a screen type based on the available scenarios, such as Blank, Scrollable, List, Success,
       Tutorial, Email, People, Meeting, or Calendar.
       App checker
       Runs the App checker    with available rules and shows the results.
    Settings
    Configure the app's general settings.
    General
    Shows app name, and allows changing the app icon. To update the icon, select a new icon or
    background color. To add or update description, enter text in the text box. You can also upload a
    custom icon for the app using the Browse option.
     Display
     Shows the screen size and orientation. To change, select the radio buttons for Orientation and
     Size.
     Advanced settings allow you to further customize the app screen configuration.
        Scale to it: Scales the app to fit available space.
        Lock aspect ratio: Locks the height and width ratio.
        Lock orientation: Maintains app orientation when device rotates.
     To change the setting, toggle the switch.
     More information: Change screen size and orientation
     Upcoming features
     Allows you to configure advanced settings for the app that include features under preview,
     experimental or retired features.
     More information: Understand experimental, preview, and deprecated features in Power Apps
     Support
     Shows current Power Apps Studio session details, version, and other information useful when
     working with Microsoft support.
     Power Automate
     Create a new flow with Power Automate, or select any available flow.
     More information: Create flows using the Power Apps app in Teams
     Collections
     A collection is a group of items that are similar, such as products in a product list. This section
     lists the collections used by the current app. More information: Collections in canvas apps used
     by the app.
     Variables
     You can save data such as the result values from a data set into temporary storage by using
     variables. This section lists variables used by the current app. More information: Variables in
     canvas apps used by the app.
     3 – App actions
     Use the options in the upper-right corner of Power Apps Studio to work with app-specific actions.
     App name editor
     Select the name of the app to edit it.
     Save
     Save allows you to perform the following actions:
        Save - Saves recent and unsaved changes you made to the app in Power Apps Studio. Each
        time you save changes, a new version is created.
        Save as - Duplicate the app by saving the app with a different name.
        Save and publish - Allows you to both save the app, and publish it at the same time.
     Preview
     This will show a preview version of the app in Microsoft Teams that you can interact with.
     Publish to Teams
     Publishes the app’s current version to a channel within Microsoft Teams. For more information
     about publishing an app, go to Publish an app.
     4 – Properties list
     Shows the list of available properties for the selected object on the canvas. The properties list
     changes based on your selection. For a complete list of all properties, go to All properties.
     5 – Formula bar
     Use the formula bar to add, edit, or remove functions relevant to the selected object and the
     property selected from the properties list. For example, select the screen to update the
     background by using the RGBA function.
     The formula bar is IntelliSense-enabled, and provides tips as you enter text to help you with the
     function syntax. If a formula returns an error, tips relevant to the syntax error and mitigation steps
    are displayed. When you start entering text that matches one or more functions, the formula bar
    shows inline function help and highlights help text relevant to the cursor position.
    Similarly, you'll find help when working with complex functions, nested functions, or when
    correcting a formula syntax.
    For a quick and easy function reference, you can also select the formula drop-down menu.
    Select an event type from the drop-down menu at the top of the dialog box, such as Action
    instead of Text.
    Select an action that you want to add a function for.
    The available functions for the selected event type are dynamically updated depending on the
    object you select. For example, if you selected a button on the canvas, the available Action
    functions also include the function ClearCollect().
    You can read the description of the selected Action function. Double-clicking a function name
    adds it into the formula bar.
    For a complete list of all canvas app functions, go to Formula reference.
    6 – Power Apps app
    The Power Apps app in Teams is described in detail in Overview of the Power Apps app.
    7 – App authoring menu
     Switch between various authoring options while working with the app.
       Tip
      You can also select the expand button to expand the list to include names instead of just
      icons.
        Tree view - Shows a tree view of all screens and controls in the current app.
        Insert - Allows you to add different controls to the screen.
        Data - Add or remove data such as tables that the app connects to.
        Media - Insert or remove media from the app.
     8 – App authoring options
     The options for working with canvas apps change depending on the selection on the left pane.
     Tree view
     Select the tree view to show the screens available in the app,
      Tip
     Select App in the tree view to work with app-specific controls or to change app behavior,
     such as adding a formula on OnStart event of the app.
    Switch to the Components tab to work with component library features. You can add new
    components or reuse those that were already published from published component libraries.
    More information: Component library
    Insert
    Insert shows all the popular objects or controls that you can add on the selected screen in your
    canvas app. You can also expand other choices or use the components option to insert controls
    from a component library.
        To insert controls on the canvas, you can drag the control to the canvas, select the control, or
        select (...) and then select Add to canvas.
           Tip
          Dataverse for Teams provides new components built on the Fluent UI framework  . More
          information: Fluent UI controls.
        Popular controls
                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                       Expand table
           Name                Description
           Label               A box that shows data such as text, numbers, dates, or currency.
           Edit form           Display, edit, or create a record in a data source.
           Text                A box that shows text.
           Text box            A box in which the user can enter text, numbers, and other data.
           Vertical gallery    A control that contains other controls and shows a set of data.
           Add icon            Graphics for which you can configure appearance and behavior properties.
           Rectangle           A rectangular shape to configure the canvas appearance.
           Date Picker         A control that the user can select to specify a date.
           Button              A control that the user can select to interact with the app.
         For more information about the controls that you can insert, and their properties and definitions,
         go to Controls and properties in Power Apps.
         Classic controls
         Dataverse for Teams uses Fluent UI controls by default. If necessary, you can enable classic
         controls by using the experimental feature setting. To do this, go to Settings > Upcoming
         features > Experimental > toggle Classic controls to On.
         After you enable classic controls, you'll be able to see and add them from the Classic category.
         For example, you may need to enable classic controls when using dependent drop-down lists
         when using Dataverse for Teams.
         Data
    Add, refresh, or remove data sources from your canvas app. You can add one or more
    connections by using data sources.
    In addition to data stored within tables, there are many connectors available to interact with data
    in popular SaaS, services, and systems.
    Select Create new table to create a new table in the Dataverse for Teams environment.
    To choose other connectors such as SharePoint, OneDrive, or SQL Server, you can enter text in
    the data source search box or select from the list of connectors.
    More information: List of all Power Apps connectors
    Visual editor
    When you select Create new table and enter a name for the new table, you open visual editor
    where you can design the table, add columns of different data types, enter data in rows, and save
    the changes.
    To get started with visual editor, select Create a table and enter the table name. You can also
    expand the Advanced settings to update the table's plural name. For example, a table name can
    be Shape, and the plural table name can be Shapes.
    Watch this video that shows you how to quickly create table and columns.
    https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=40f4f29f-77df-420a-a182-
    cb71b39f4613&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Funderstand-
         power-apps-studio
           ７ Note
           You can use visual editor in Power Apps Studio to quickly create a table while authoring an
           app. However, you can also use the Build tab to edit or delete the tables you create by using
           Power Apps Studio. Go to Create tables in Microsoft Teams for more information about
           creating tables by using the Build tab.
         Understand visual editor
         Visual editor allows you to work with table rows, columns, and data.
         Table name
         Select Edit      to edit the name of the table.
         Add row
    Select Add row to add a new row to the table.
    Add columns
    Select Add columns to add new columns of the available column types supported by visual
    editor.
    Supported column types
    Visual editor supports specific data types as columns. The following options are available when
    creating a new column using visual editor inside Power Apps Studio:
      Text
      Email
      URL
      Phone
      Auto number
      Number
      Date (Only dates without the user locale (time zone) settings are supported.)
      Decimal
      Lookup
      Choice
      Yes/No
     ） Important
     To add columns of types that aren't supported by visual editor, such as file or image, create
     a table by using the solution explorer instead.
    Advanced options
    The advanced options for columns change depending on the type of column. For example, a Text
    column type has an advanced option for Max length. By contrast, an Auto number column type
    has options such as the type of autonumbering, prefixes, and maximum number of digits. More
    information: Types of fields
    Show/hide columns
    Use the Show/hide columns option to show or hide available columns, including columns
    automatically created as part of the table metadata.
    For example, you can add an Owner column created by default to the existing table.
    Refresh
    Refreshes the current table with data.
    Save
    To save changes to a table, select Save. When you change a table and try to close it without
    saving changes, you're prompted to discard changes.
    To ensure that changes to the table are saved, you can select the next row inside the table, or
    select any other cell after editing a cell to trigger the auto save functionality.
    After you close a saved table, you'll see the table added to the list of available data sources in
    Data on the left pane.
    Visual editor view
    Select from the options of Compact, Default, or Comfortable layouts to switch the view with
    columns and rows spacing to change visual editor layout.
    Row count
    Shows the row counts in the table.
    Column options
    Select the drop-down menu next to the column heading to view column-related options.
                                                                                                 ﾉ Expand table
          Option         Description
          Edit column    Edit the column name or advanced options. After it's created, you can't change the name of
                         the column.
          Hide           Hide or unhide the column.
          Insert         Insert a new column at the selected column location.
          column
          A to Z         Sort records in ascending order.
          Z to A         Sort records in descending order.
          Filter by      Filter column data based on the filter criteria you define.
          Move left      Move the column to the left from the current position.
          Move right     Move the column to the right from the current position.
          Pin left       Pin the column to the left side of the table.
          Pin right      Pin the column to the right side of the table.
     Option Description
     Delete Delete the column.
     column
    Edit existing table
    After you add rows and columns, and add data, you can close the table and use it as the data
    source in your app. To edit content in the table, you can use the app controls or go back to visual
    editor.
    To edit the table, select the table data source, and then select Edit data to open the table in visual
    editor.
    After you close visual editor, the data source is automatically refreshed to reflect the updated
    data in Power Apps Studio. You can also select Refresh to manually refresh Power Apps Studio to
    reflect the data in the controls you added on the canvas.
    Media
    Select Media to add images, video, or audio files to your app. Adding media directly to your app
    uploads the files to the app and uses the app storage. Each file uploaded to the app as media
    must be 64 MB or smaller, and the size of all media files uploaded to an app can't exceed 200
    MB.
    If you want to reference more media, consider using audio and video controls with URLs, using
    media from Azure Media Services. More information: Using multimedia files in Power Apps
     9 – Canvas/screen
     The canvas shows the currently selected screen from the left pane.
     10 – Properties pane
     The properties pane shows properties and options available for the currently selected object on
     the canvas. The Properties tab shows generic options such as the name, color, size, or position.
     The Advanced tab shows more options for advanced customization. The advanced properties
     might sometimes be locked for editing, such as when working with data cards. You can select
     Unlock to change properties in such situations.
     11 – Screen selector
     Use the screen selector to switch between screens when your canvas app has multiple screens.
     You can also select a screen from the left pane by selecting the tree view. If the current selection
     is inside a container, or inside an individual cell in a gallery, the selector shows the breadcrumbs
     for the parent elements at each level.
     12 – Change canvas screen size
     You can zoom in or zoom out while authoring the canvas app. Select Ctrl+0 Fit to window to fit
     the screen size based on the current authoring window size. The zoom percentage or screen size
     you use while authoring a canvas app has no impact on the aspect ratio configured for the app
     when you preview your app or play a published app.
     See also
     Use the Fluent UI controls
     Overview of the Power Apps app
     Manage your apps in Teams
     Create tables in Microsoft Teams
     ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 05/20/2026
        Use Fluent UI controls
        Creating apps that look great in Microsoft Teams will be easier with our new components. Built
        on the Fluent UI framework  , the new components will look great with Teams styles and will
        automatically adjust to the Teams default theme. The new controls are Button, Check box, Combo
        box, Date picker, Label, Radio group, Rating, Slider, Text box, and Toggle.
        Let's take a look at each Fluent UI control and its most useful properties. For a complete list of
        controls and properties in Power Apps, go to Controls and properties in Power Apps.
        Button
        A control that the user can select to interact with the app.
        Description
        Configure the OnSelect property of a Button control to run one or more formulas when the user
        selects the control.
        Key properties
        ButtonType – The style of button to show, Standard, or Primary. Default value: Standard.
        OnSelect – How the app responds when the user selects a control.
        Text – Text that appears on a control or that the user enters into a control.
    Check box
    A control that the user can select or clear to set its value to true or false.
    Description
    The user can specify a Boolean value by using this familiar control, which has been widely used in
    the user interface.
    Key properties
    Box side – The side of the control on which the check box is displayed.
    Label – Text that appears on a control.
    Checked – Whether the control is checked or not.
    Combo box
    A control that allows users to make selections from provided choices. Supports search and
    multiple selections.
    Description
    A Combo box control allows a user to search for items to select.
    Single-select or multiple-select mode is configured via the SelectMultiple property.
    Key properties
     Items – The source of data from which selections can be made.
     DefaultSelectedItems – The items that are initially selected before the user interacts with the
     control.
     SelectMultiple – Whether the user can select a single item or multiple items.
     IsSearchable – Whether the user can search for items before selecting.
     Limitations
      1. The list of Options doesn't support Data Paging. It's limited to show the first 500 records.
      2. Filtering the list of Options by typing in the Text Box area of the Control works inside the
        browser, not on the Server. This, coupled with the previous limitation, means that Filtering
        will not match any Option(s) beyond the first 500 entries, even when the Text matches.
     Date picker
     A control that the user can select to specify a date.
     Description
     If you add a Date picker control instead of a text input control, you help ensure that the user
     specifies a date in the correct format.
     Key properties
     Value – The date currently selected in a date control. This date is represented in local time.
     Label
     A box that shows data such as text, numbers, dates, or currency.
     Description
     A label shows data that you specify as a literal string of text or as a formula that evaluates to a
     string of text. Labels often appear outside of any other control (such as a banner that identifies a
     screen), as a label that identifies another control (such as a rating or audio control), or in a gallery
     to show a specific type of information about an item.
     Key properties
     Color – The color of text in a control.
     Font – The name of the family of fonts in which text appears.
     Text – The text that appears on a control.
     Radio group
     An input control that shows multiple options, only one of which users can select at a time.
     Description
     A Radio group control, a standard HTML input control, is best used with only a few, mutually
     exclusive options.
     Key properties
     Items – The source of data that appears in a control such as a gallery, a list, or a chart.
     Selected – The data record that represents the selected item.
     Rating
     A control with which users can indicate a value from 0 through a maximum number that you
     specify.
     Description
     In this control, the user can indicate, for example, how much they liked something by selecting a
     certain number of stars.
     Key properties
     Value – The initial value of a control before it's changed by the user.
     Max – The maximum value to which the user can set a slider or a rating.
     Slider
     A control with which the user can specify a value by dragging a handle.
     Description
     The user can indicate a value, between a minimum and a maximum value that you specify, by
     dragging the handle of a slider left to right or up and down, depending on the direction that you
     choose.
     Key properties
     Max – The maximum value to which the user can set a slider or a rating.
     Min – The minimum value to which the user can set a slider.
     Value – The value of an input control.
     Layout – Whether a control is displayed horizontally or vertically.
     Show value – Whether a control should display the value.
     Text box
     A box in which the user can enter text, numbers, and other data.
     Description
     The user can specify data by typing into a Text box control. Depending on how you configure the
     app, that data might be added to a data source, used to calculate a temporary value, or
     incorporated in some other way.
     Key properties
     Font – The name of the family of fonts in which text appears.
     Text – Text that appears on a control or that the user enters into a control.
     Toggle
     A control that the user can turn on or off by moving its handle.
     Description
     A Toggle control is designed for the modern user interface, but behaves the same way as a check
     box.
     Key properties
     Checked – Whether the control is checked or not.
     OffText – The text of the off state.
     OnText – The text of the on state.
     Difference between Fluent UI and classic controls
     Properties of controls have been simplified for the ease of use. The following table lists
     differences between Fluent UI controls and classic control property names.
                                                         ﾉ Expand table
      Control type              Classic               Fluent UI
      Button                      Fill                 ColorFill
                               Background           ColorBackground
                                TabIndex             AcceptsFocus
      Check box                 Default                Checked
                                TabIndex             AcceptsFocus
      Combo box             InputTextPlaceholder        Text
                                TabIndex             AcceptsFocus
      Date picker              SelectedDate             Value
                                TabIndex             AcceptsFocus
      Label                      Size                  FontSize
      Radio group               TabIndex             AcceptsFocus
      Control type               Classic               Fluent UI
      Rating                     Default                Value
                                TabIndex              AcceptsFocus
      Slider                     Default                Value
                                TabIndex              AcceptsFocus
      Text box                   Color                 ColorText
                                 Default                Value
                                  Fill               ColorBackground
                                SpellCheck           EnableSpellCheck
                                TabIndex              AcceptsFocus
      Toggle                      Size                 FontSize
                                 Default               Checked
                                TabIndex              AcceptsFocus
     Upgrade to modern controls
     The Fluent UI (v8) controls in your canvas app in Microsoft Teams are deprecated. Modern
     controls replace them. Upgrade your apps to modern controls to keep getting the latest design,
     performance, and accessibility improvements. For more information, see Upgrade Fluent UI
     controls to modern controls.
     See also
     Create additional apps
     Understand Power Apps Studio
     Upgrade Fluent UI controls to modern controls
      Last updated on 07/21/2026
       Create additional apps from Microsoft
       Teams
       Article • 12/16/2022
       Using the Power Apps app to create the first app in a team creates an environment.
       After an environment is available, you can create additional apps in the team by using
       several methods. Let's take a look at them.
       Create an app from the Power Apps home
       Select Create an app from the Power Apps app to get started with creating an app.
       When the team that you select already has an environment available, you're not
       prompted to install an environment. Instead, you can select Create to create the app.
             Create an app from the environment home
             To create an app for the environment, you can also select the environment on the left
             pane, and then select New.
             You can also select Create at the bottom of the environment list.
             Create an app while inside a team
             To create an app while you're inside a team, go to the team and select the channel.
             Select Add a tab    .
       In the dialog box, select Power Apps, and then select Create an app in Power Apps.
       Create an app from the solution explorer
       You can also select New > Canvas app, and then select an app layout to create an app.
       A canvas app is an app that you can create from scratch or using any available template
              through Power Apps Studio. More information: Canvas apps terminology reference and
              definitions
                 Tip
                Creating a canvas app using different methods doesn't affect which app features
                are available. If you want to change the app orientation and size after you selected
                a layout, go to Change screen size and orientation of a canvas app.
              See also
                    Microsoft Teams integration object
                    Use the Fluent UI controls
                    Create apps from lists in Teams
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
             Create an app from a list in Microsoft
             Teams
             Article • 12/16/2022
             You can create an app from within a list in a Microsoft Teams channel      .
                 Tip
                To learn more about the Lists app in Teams, go to Overview of the Lists app in
                Microsoft Teams.
                1. Create a list in a Teams channel   .
                2. From the list, select Integrate > Power Apps > Create an app.
                3. If you have never used Power Apps in Teams before, you'll be prompted to add the
                   Power Apps app to Teams. Select Add to install the Power Apps app in Teams.
                   More information: Install the Power Apps personal app in Microsoft Teams
                4. In the modal that appears, enter a name for your app and then select Save.
        The app will be created using the data from your list.
       5. (Optional) Customize your app by adding and configuring controls.
       6. (Optional) Select Publish to Teams to publish your app to a channel of any team
        that you have access to, including the team where your Microsoft list is located.
         ７ Note
         Apps created in Teams are only accessible within Teams. You may view your
         apps created in Teams by selecting Integrate > Power Apps > See all apps
         from the command bar of a list in Teams or by going directly to the Build tab
         in Power Apps in Teams. In the Build tab, a link is available to navigate to the
         rest of your apps in Power Apps web.
      See also
        Create your first app in Microsoft Teams
        Create additional apps from Microsoft Teams
    Overview of Microsoft Dataverse for Teams
    Microsoft Dataverse for Teams delivers a built-in, low-code data platform for Microsoft Teams. It
    provides relational data storage, rich data types, enterprise-grade governance, and one-click
    solution deployment. Dataverse for Teams enables everyone to easily build and deploy apps.
    Some of the benefits of Dataverse for Teams include:
      Support to build low-code and no-code apps, flows, and chatbots for and within Teams.
      Core data capabilities from the same platform behind Microsoft Power Platform and
      Dynamics 365.
      Storage, rich data types with enterprise capabilities, and one-click solution deployment.
      A new visual editor that makes it even easier to define and populate table data.
      Enterprise security that's easy to use and aligned with the approach used in Teams.
      Inclusion in most existing Teams licenses.
      Storage of 2 GB per team, and support for up to 1 million rows.
      Support for 5 teams plus 1 additional team for every 20 licensed users.
        The capability to be upgraded to Dataverse.
     For the latest licensing, capacity, and request-limit guidance, see Dataverse for Teams FAQs and
     About the Dataverse for Teams environment.
     Tables in Dataverse for Teams
     Dataverse for Teams tables provide the ability to create, populate, and query data within
     Dataverse for Teams. Tables represent different types of entities important to an organization,
     such as a table to store products or another to store orders.
     Each of these tables includes columns that contain data about the subject of the table. For
     example, a table named Product might have columns that contain a product name, product
     identifier, manufacturer identifier, and price. Each of these columns can contain different types of
     data. For example, the type of data for a product name is text, identifiers could be numbers, and
     so on.
     A solution often has multiple tables that are used together in an application. For example, an
     Order table might reference multiple other tables, such as Customer, Product, and Country. These
     tables are "related" to one another, and tables provide the way to create those relationships.
     You can create and populate these tables with a new visual editor that makes it even easier to
     work with these tables.
      ７ Note
      All the capabilities found in tables are powered by Dataverse for Teams. Although this will
      satisfy many situations, in some situations an organization might want to have additional
      capacity, capabilities, or control over their solution. In these scenarios, Dataverse for Teams
      environments can be upgraded to Microsoft Dataverse. The upgrade process has several
      considerations discussed in Upgrade process in the Microsoft Power Platform admin guide.
     Security in Dataverse for Teams
     These tables and the applications that use them are secured with enterprise-grade security that's
     easy to understand and use for low-code and no-code developers. Security in Dataverse for
     Teams aligns to how security is handled in Teams, with a focus on Owners, Members, and Guests.
     Administer Dataverse for Teams environment
     You can administer and manage Dataverse for Teams environment using the Power Platform
     admin center. More information: About the Dataverse for Teams environment in the Power
     Platform admin guide.
     See also
     How are Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse different?
     Create tables
     Work with table relationships
     Dataverse for Teams FAQs
     Overview of creating apps in Teams
     ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 05/22/2026
          How are Dataverse for Teams and
          Dataverse different?
          Article • 05/28/2025
          Applications within a team in Microsoft Teams have access to a Dataverse for Teams
          environment. Dataverse for Teams is a common platform that allows all these interfaces to have
          a unified understanding of how the data is modeled and consumed. Dataverse for Teams
          delivers a targeted set of the features commonly needed for creating apps, flows, and more
          within Teams. If your organization requires more capabilities, such as more granular control for
          security and governance, or capacity beyond the approximately 1 million rows a Dataverse for
          Teams environment can contain, Dataverse for Teams can be upgraded to Dataverse.
          Table features
          Following are the differences between a Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse table features.
                                                                                                    ﾉ Expand table
            Feature                                                               Dataverse for Teams      Dataverse
            Basic data types                                                      Yes                      Yes
            Advanced data types  (customer, multiple transaction currencies)      No                       Yes
            Relational storage                                                    Yes                      Yes
            Non-relational storage (logs)                                         No                       Yes
            Managed data lake                                                     No                       Yes
            File and image support                                                Yes                      Yes
            Find, filter, sort                                                    Yes                      Yes
            Advanced and Dataverse search                                         No                       Yes
            Mobile offline                                                        No                       Yes
          Most of the standard tables that are provided with a Power Platform environment won't be
          present as part of Dataverse for Teams.
          Business intelligence, professional developer, and
          maker features
           This table describes the differences between Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse business
           intelligence and professional developer features.
                                                                                                       ﾉ Expand table
            Area                     Feature                                          Dataverse for           Dataverse
                                                                                      Teams
            Business intelligence    Data visualization                               Yes                     Yes
                                     Paginated reports (SQL Server Reporting          No                      Yes
                                     Services)
            Professional             API access                                       No                      Yes
            developer
                                     Plug-ins                                         No                      Yes
                                     Power Apps component framework                   No                      Yes
            Maker                    Create canvas apps                               Yes                     Yes
                                     Create model-driven apps                         No                      Yes
           Environments
           In Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse, data is stored within an environment. Dataverse for
           Teams creates a single environment for each team in Teams where you create data, apps,
           chatbots, and workflows. Environments support backups, point-in-time restore, and disaster
           recovery. With Dataverse for Teams, capacity is measured with relational, image, and file data.
           The 2-GB capacity provided to a team can typically store up to 1 million rows of data.
           To make management easier, the lifecycle of the Dataverse for Teams environment is
           connected to that of the associated team. For example, when a team is deleted, the associated
           environment is also deleted.
           Whereas Dataverse for Teams focuses on one environment per team for up to 10,000 teams,
           Dataverse supports unlimited environments in addition to capabilities that are relevant for
           multiple environments, such as copy and reset.
                                                                                                       ﾉ
                                                                                                           Expand table
            Environment lifecycle                        Dataverse for Teams                        Dataverse
            Environments                                 1 per Team                                 Unlimited
            Environment lifecycle                       Dataverse for Teams                       Dataverse
            Maximum size                                1 million rows or 2 GB                    Unlimited
            Upgrade to Dataverse                        Yes                                       N/A
          Security
          Because collaboration in Teams happens with people inside and outside your organization, the
          security model needed to support this is easy to use. In Dataverse for Teams, access is
          preconfigured with a security role based on membership type such as owners, members, or
          guests.
          Because Dataverse isn't specific to the Teams environment, it delivers more options for admin
          and user roles. It also includes many other security capabilities such as customer-managed
          keys, field-level security, hierarchical security, sharing, and support for legacy authentication.
             ７ Note
             Because Dataverse for Teams environments are specific to a team, they only contain one
             business unit.
                                                                                                    ﾉ
                                                                                                        Expand table
            Security feature          Dataverse for Teams       Dataverse
            Admin roles               System Administrator      System Administrator and System Customizer and
                                      and System Customizer     other service admin roles. More information: Use
                                                                service admin roles to manage your tenant
            User roles                Team owners,              Several standard security roles and custom roles can
                                      members, and guests       also be created. More information: Security roles and
                                                                privileges
            Activity logging          No                        Yes
            Auditing                  No                        Yes
            Business units            One                       Unlimited
            Customer-managed          No                        Yes
            environment
            encryption key
            Field-level security      No                        Yes
           Security feature         Dataverse for Teams      Dataverse
           Hierarchical security    No                       Yes
           Record sharing           No                       Yes
           Create Owner Teams**     Yes                      Yes
           Create Microsoft Entra   No                       Yes
           group Teams
           Record sharing to        No                       Yes
           Group Teams
           Assign Teams Roles to    Yes                      Yes
                        1
           Owner Teams
           Change record            Yes                      Yes
           ownership**
          1
            Can be done via a custom app in Power Apps
          Integration
          Integration with Dataverse for Teams is delivered primarily through connectors. Support for
          both standard connectors and the ability to use the Dataverse connector to connect to a
          Dataverse for Teams for a Teams environment is included. Users with Premium licenses have
          access to the full set of over 350 standard and premium connectors available. This allows you
          to bring data into or retrieve data from tables in Dataverse for Teams, execute workflows when
          data in those tables change, and also use data from tables in workflow logic.
          Dataverse can also use connectors. Additionally, Dataverse includes other built-in integration
          capabilities that can export data to a data lake or publish events to an event hub, service bus,
          or by using webhooks. Dataverse also supports the TDS protocol, which provides integration
          with SQL Server.
          Dataverse can also be used with server-side sync to synchronize with Exchange or POP3, and
          with Data Export Service, which synchronizes data to Azure SQL Database.
                                                                                               ﾉ Expand table
           Integration feature                                Dataverse for Teams               Dataverse
           Power Automate                                     Yes                               Yes
           Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse                   No                                Yes
           Integration feature                            Dataverse for Teams            Dataverse
           Data Export Service                            No                             Yes
           Events to Azure Event Hubs                     No                             Yes
           Events to Azure Service Bus                    No                             Yes
           Webhooks                                       No                             Yes
           Server-side sync                               No                             Yes
           SQL Server Management Studio                   No                             Yes
         See also
         Create a table
              Comparing Microsoft Lists, Dataverse
              for Teams, and Dataverse
              Article • 10/26/2022
              Whether you’re using Power Apps to build a small app for your team or a mission critical
              app for your business, there are many great options for data.
              This article focuses on three of the most popular data technologies used in Microsoft
              Power Platform: Microsoft Lists, Microsoft Dataverse for Teams, and Microsoft Dataverse.
              With the answers to the questions below, you can quickly understand and apply the key
              considerations that will help you pick the correct one for your application.
              The questions are broken out into four categories:
                                                                                              ﾉ Expand table
               Category              Questions
               Data                  What types of data (and how much of it) will your application require?
                                     How do you want to search the data?
               Application           How will the app be made available? For example, will it be a Teams app,
                                     custom code, or something else?
                                     Will guests be accessing your application?
                                     Who will build the app; low-code or pro developers?
                                     What special capabilities does your application need?
               Integration           What do you want to integrate the system with? For example, databases,
                                     services, and so on?
               Admin and             What are your organizations requirements related to security and
               governance            compliance?
                                     Are there special requirements for backing up and restoring the data?
              Key considerations and differences between
              Lists, Dataverse for Teams, and Dataverse
              Using the answers to the questions above, use the table below to help identify the right
              technology for your application.
                                                                                              ﾉ
                                                                                                  Expand table
                 Considerations      Lists                    Dataverse for Teams          Dataverse
                 Types of data       Lists, File, Image       Relational, File, or Image   Relational, File, Image, Lake,
                                                                                           Log, Dataverse Search
                                                                                           Virtual tables
                 Number of data      15                       23 (Currency is basic        24 (Currency is advanced
                 types                                        version)                     version)
                 Common Data         N/A                      User table only              Full support
                 Model
                 Capacity            Up to 30M rows           Up to 1M rows                No specified limit on rows.
                                     (considerations for
                                     lists > 100k)            Small number of files or     No specified limit of files or
                                                              images                       images.
                                                              For limits on API            For limits on API requests
                                                              requests per day, go to      per day, with option of
                                                              the entitlements             capacity add-ons, go to this
                                                              available for Microsoft      article: Request limits based
                                                              365 apps with Power          on user licenses
                                                              Platform access in the
                                                              article: Request limits
                                                              based on user licenses
                 Data movement       Create from/Export       Dataflows In                 Dataflows In/Out
                                     to Excel                                              Server-side sync
                                                                                           Synapse Integration (Bring
                                                                                           Your Own Data Lake, Data
                                                                                           Factory)
                 Security            Owners, Members,         Owner, Member, Guest         Robust options to satisfy
                                     Visitors, Designers,     roles                        complex enterprise scenario
                                     Approvers roles                                       requirements, such as roles,
                                     Customizable             Share app with Azure AD      business units, auditing,
                                     permissions              group                        CMK, hierarchical/field-
                                                                                           Level security, and so on
                                                  1
                 Clients             Lists, Teams ,           Teams                        Teams, Power Apps, Power
                                     custom code                                           Pages, Dynamics 365,
                                                                                           custom code
                 Guest               Can't create or          Can't make, install, or      Must be in Azure AD using
                 limitations         delete a list            edit apps                    Azure B2B
                 Pro developer       REST API                 N/A                          REST API
                 capability          Graph API                                             Software Development Kit
                                                                                           (SDK)
                                                                                           Plug-in Support
                                                                                           Integration (Event Hub,
              Considerations   Lists               Dataverse for Teams      Dataverse
                                                                            Service Bus, Webhook,
                                                                            Export to Lake) SQL Server
                                                                            Management Studio
                                                                            Integration
              Package and      Package and deploy  Single unmanaged         Unlimited
              deploy           Lists               solution per
                                                   environment
              Additional       Calculations and    N/A                      Business workflows
              capabilities     rollups                                      Business rules
                                                                            Calculations and rollups
                                                                            Mobile offline
             1
              You can't create or pin lists on Power Apps mobile.
             See also
             Dataverse and Dataverse for Teams licensing
             How are Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse different?
             What is Dataverse?
     Create tables in Microsoft Teams
     In Teams, data is defined by tables. To create a table, you must be a member of a team.
      ７ Note
      The Teams experience changes frequently. If the current Teams UI or screenshots in this
      article don't match what you see, use the option names and overall flow as your guide.
     If you need to work with existing data after the table is created, see Edit table data in Excel and
     publish it back to Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse for Teams FAQs.
     Types of tables
     Whereas Dataverse has two types of tables (a standard table with ownership defined and an
     activity table), you can only create standard tables in Dataverse for Teams.
     You define the type of table by selecting More settings when you create a table.
     There are four different types of table ownership. When you create a table, the only options are
     user, team owned, or organization-owned, but you should be aware that other tables have
     different ownership types. More information: Types of tables in Dataverse
     Create a table
     Watch this video for a quick overview about how to create a table in Dataverse for Teams:
     https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=a7b07bc4-1e08-4ed9-8675-
     b700a8e1a6a3&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fcreate-table
       1. Sign in to Teams, and then select the link for Power Apps.
     2. Select the Build tab, and then select See all.
     3. Select New on the command bar, and then select Table.
     4. In the New table pane, enter the following information. Required columns are designated
      with an asterisk (*) next to the column label.
         Display name: The name of the table to be displayed. For example, Product.
         Plural display name: The name used to reflect multiples of what the table contains. For
         example, Products.
         Name: A unique internal name for the table. Unlike the display name, after it's saved
         this value can't be changed.
          ７ Note
          Each Dataverse for Teams environment is assigned a prefix when it's created, such
          as cr628. The name for every table and column you create will be prefixed with
          this value. This value can't be changed.
         Display name (Primary name column): Every table contains a primary name column,
         which is used by lookup fields when establishing relationships with other tables.
         Typically the primary name column stores the name or primary description of the data
         stored in the entity.
         Name (Primary name column): This column is pre-populated based on the primary
         name column name you enter. It includes the prefix. You cannot change this after the
         table is saved.
         More settings: This area provides additional settings that are available. More
         information: Create a custom table.
       5. Select Done.
     See also
     Edit or delete a table Overview of Microsoft Dataverse for Teams Dataverse for Teams FAQs
     ） Note: The author created this article with assistance from AI. Learn more
      Last updated on 05/22/2026
       Edit or delete a table
       Article • 02/15/2022
       With Dataverse for Teams, you can perform the following types of operations on a table:
          Create table columns.
          Delete a table.
          Create, edit, and delete table relationships. More information: Work with table
          relationships
       Edit table properties
       In Microsoft Teams, you can edit four table properties:
          Display name: The name you want to display for the table.
          Plural display name: The plural of the table name, when needed for display.
          Description: A brief description of the purpose of the table.
          Quick create settings: This enables quick creation of records for client apps that
          support this feature.
         ７ Note
            You can also edit a table using the visual editor. More information: Create
            your first table
            Each Dataverse for Teams environment is assigned a prefix when it's created,
            such as cr1a3. The name for every table and column you create will be
            prefixed with this value. This value can't be changed.
         1. On the left pane, select Tables.
         2. Select the table you want and then select Settings on the command bar to display
          the Edit table dialog box.
          For more information about these settings, see Create a table.
         3. Make the changes you want, and then select Done.
       Edit table columns
       You can edit table columns using the visual editor.
         1. On the left pane, select Tables.
         2. Select the table you want, select Edit data on the command bar to display the
          visual editor.
              More information: Create your first table
              Delete a table
              Anyone who's a member of the team can delete tables that aren't part of a managed
              solution.
              In the Tables list, select … next to the table you want to delete, and then select Delete
              table. Alternatively, while viewing a table, select Delete table on the command bar.
              See also
              Work with table relationships
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Work with table relationships
       Article • 02/15/2022
       Table relationships define the ways that table records can be associated with records
       from other tables or the same table. There are three types of table relationships.
       Dataverse for Teams allows for the creation of the same relationship types as Dataverse
       does:
          One-to-many relationships. In this type of relationship, each row in table A can
          match more than one row in table B, but each row in table B can match only one
          row in table A. For example, a class of students have a single classroom.
          Many-to-one relationships. In this type of relationship, each row in table B can
          match more than one row in table A, but each row in table A can match only one
          row in table B. For example, one single teacher teaches many classes.
          Many-to-many relationships. In this type of relationship, each row in table A can
          match more than one row in table B, and vice versa. For example, students attend
          many classes, and each class can have multiple students.
       More information: Entity relationships
       Create a table relationship
       To add a lookup relation to a table, create a relation on the Relationships tab and
       specify the table with which you want to create a relationship.
         1. In the Power Apps section of Microsoft Teams, select the table to create a
          relationship. This can be done by opening the table and selecting the
          Relationships tab.
        Or, on the left pane, expand Tables, expand the table you want, and then select
        Relationships.  
       2. When the relationships page is open, select Add relationship, and then select the
        type of relationship you want to create (for example, Many-to-one).
      More information: Create a relationship between entities
       ７ Note
       When defining columns of type lookup within a table, a many-to-one relationship
       is created automatically.
       Edit a table relationship
       Editing relationships in Dataverse for Teams works the same as Dataverse except that
       you can't manage collaboration functions, such as allowing feedback or enabling
       SharePoint document management. More information: Relationship actions
       Delete a table relationship
       While viewing table relationships, select the table relationship you want to delete, and
       then do one of the following:
           Select Delete relationship on the command bar.
           Select … next to the relationship, and then select Delete relationship.
       See also
       Work with table columns
       Work with table columns
       Article • 02/15/2022
       With the exception of the Customer column, all column types in Dataverse are available
       in Dataverse for Teams as columns. This article covers the content you'll need for
       working with table columns in Dataverse for Teams.
       Watch this video for a quick overview about column data types in Dataverse for Teams:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=416d5037-a701-436d-bd77-
       e7fcb5329ead&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Ftable-columns
       Notice that the currency feature will always use the default currency for the
       country/region that was selected during Dataverse for Teams environment creation. This
       can't be changed, and additional transaction currencies or exchange rates can't be
       added. However, you can upgrade from Dataverse for Teams to Dataverse for full
       currency functionality.
       For more information about the columns available, see these Dataverse articles:
         Columns overview
         Create and edit global option sets overview
         Autonumber columns
         Set managed properties for columns
         Behavior and format of the Date and Time column
       Create a column
       Watch this video to learn how to create columns in Dataverse for Teams:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=9a5cecc2-2fce-4ad5-adc9-
       0d68afb3426c&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Ftable-columns
        1. On the Build tab, select See all, and then expand Tables.
        2. Select the table you want to add a column to, and then select Add column on the
         command bar.
              The rest of the process to add and manage columns is the same as in Dataverse, which
              is documented in these articles:
                    Create and edit columns for Dataverse using Power Apps portal
                    Manage custom columns in an entity
              Choice columns
              In Dataverse for Teams, choices can only be created as a column within a table. Creating
              choices is otherwise the same as creating an option set in Dataverse. More information:
              Create an Option set
              Calculated and rollup columns
              Calculated columns and rollup columns are not currently supported in Dataverse for
              Teams.
              See also
              Create a table
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
       Provide product feedback
       Work with formula table columns
       (preview)
       Article • 01/01/2023
       [This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.] More information:
       Power Apps preview program
       Formula columns are a data type in Microsoft Dataverse for Teams that are built on
       Power Fx. You can add a formula column to a table in real time. The Dataverse table
       stores the logic and gives you the values during fetch operations. Formula columns use
       the Power Fx syntax that's similar to Office Excel. As you enter the formula, Intellisense
       helps you with recommendations for formula, syntax, and errors.
        ７ Note
        Formula columns can be added as a calculated field. Currently, formula columns
        can't be used in roll-up fields or with plugins.
       Add a formula column
        1. On the Build tab, select See all, and then expand Tables.
        2. From the list of tables in Power Apps app for Teams, select the table you want.
        3. Select Add column or select Edit data > Add column. When you select Edit data,
         you can also select + on the column where you want to add the formula column.
        4. In the Add new column pane:
            Enter a Name for the column, such as Total price.
            Select Formula as the Type.
            Enter the formula in the Expression box. In this example, the Price column
            (Decimal data type) is multiplied by the Number of units column (Number
            data type). Select Create.
       When you create a record, the formula column executes the formula and displays the
       data for the record. If the formula column value for a record doesn't update, select
       Refresh on the command bar to execute the formula.
       Notice that the column type is determined by the formula. You can change the formula
       after you’ve created it if it doesn’t change the column type. For example, the formula
       price * discount creates a column type of number, whereas the formula First & “ “ & Last
       creates a column type of string. You can change a price * discount formula to price *
       (discount +10%) because that doesn’t change the column type. However, once saved,
       you can’t change the price * discount formula to Text(price * discount) because that
       would require changing the column type to string.
       Data types
       The following data types can be displayed in a formula column:
          Text
          Decimal Number
          Yes/No (boolean)
          Date
        ７ Note
        The Currency data type is not currently supported.
       Function types
       The following function types are supported with the formulas used in a formula column:
          Decimal
          String
          Boolean
          Option Set
          DateTime (TZI)
          DateTime (User local) (limited to comparisons with other user local values and the
          DateAdd function)
          DateTime (Date only) (limited to comparisons with other date-only values, and the
          DateAdd function)
          Currency
          Whole Number, promoted to Decimal
       Operators
       These operators are supported with the formulas used in a formula column:
       +, -, *, /, %, ^, in, exactin, &
       More information: Operators in Power Apps
       Available functions
       The following scalar functions are available with formula columns.
       Abs
       And
      Average
      Blank
      Char
      Concatenate
      DateAdd
      DateDiff
      Day
      EndsWith
      Exp
      Hour
      If
      IfError
      Int
      IsBlank
      IsError
      ISOWeekNum
      IsUTCToday
      Left
      Len
      Ln
      Lower
      Max
      Mid
      Min
      Minute
      Mod
      Month
      Not
      Or
      Power
      Replace
      Right
      Round
      RoundDown
      RoundUp
      Second
      Sqrt
      StartsWith
      Substitute
      Sum
      Switch
      Text *
      Trim
      Trunc
      TrimEnds
              Upper
              UTCNow
              UTCToday
              Value *
              Weekday
              WeekNum
              Year
              * The Text and Value functions only work with whole numbers, where no decimal
              separator is involved. Since the decimal separator varies across locales, and the formula
              columns are evaluated without locale knowledge, there's no way to properly interpret or
              generate the decimal separator.
              See also
              Work with table columns
              Formula reference for Power Apps
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
            Edit table data in Excel and publish it
            back to Dataverse for Teams
            Article • 02/15/2022
            By opening Dataverse for Teams table data in Microsoft Excel, you can quickly and easily
            view and edit the data by using the Microsoft Power Apps Office Add-in.
            To install the Power Apps Excel Add-in, see Microsoft PowerApps Office Add-in   . For
            more information about how to add or remove an Office Excel Add-in, see Add or
            remove add-ins in Excel   .
            Open table data in Excel
                1. Sign in to Teams, and then in the left pane, select the Power Apps.
                2. Select the Build tab, and then select See all.
                3. In the left navigation pane, select Tables, next to the table you want, select …, and
                  then select Edit data in Excel.
        4. Open the Excel worksheet that is downloaded to your browser's default download
          folder named similar to crdcb_table-name (1591125669213).xlsx.
        5. In Excel, select Enable editing to enable the Power Apps Excel Add-in to run. The
          Excel Add-in runs in a pane on the right side of the Excel window.
        ） Important
           If the pane displays an error message, see Office Store Add-in download
           disabling.
           If this is the first time that you've run the Power Apps Excel Add-in, you must
           Trust this Add-in to allow the Excel Add-in to run.
           The maximum table size when editing in Excel is one million cells. If there are
           too many rows or columns, not all data will be read or published.
       Next steps
          View and refresh data in Excel
          Edit data in Excel
          Configure the add-in to adjust tables and columns
          Troubleshooting
       Move customizations between
       environments
       Article • 06/17/2022
       Microsoft Dataverse for Teams provides a simplified way to transport customizations
       between Dataverse for Teams environments. Additionally, customizations can also be
       moved between Dataverse and Dataverse for Teams environments.
       Export customizations from Dataverse for
       Teams
       Take the following steps to export your customizations from Dataverse for Teams. Notice
       that the solution packages you export from Dataverse for Teams are unmanaged.
        1. From the Power Apps personal app in Teams, select the Build tab of the team
          where you want to export your customizations. More information: Install the Power
          Apps personal app in Microsoft Teams
        2. Select See all, and select the items you want to export.
        3. On the command bar, select Export.
        4. You can now review your selected items. By default, all dependencies of the items
          you selected are added too.
            We recommend that you keep the option Export all dependencies under
            Advanced settings selected. By including all dependencies, you're optimizing
            your success when importing your customizations into another environment.
            If you prefer to manually select the dependencies of your items, you can
            change the value to Export selected dependencies under Advanced settings.
            Importing customizations that don't include all dependencies will fail if those
            dependencies aren't already in the destination environment.
         5. Select Export as zip. The selected items are exported as a compressed solution file
          (.zip). The solution file is automatically offered for download when the export
          completes.
             Files you download from Microsoft Teams will show up in your device's
             downloads folder. In Microsoft Teams desktop, you can navigate to the
             Downloads section by select Files on the left side of the Teams client.
       Import customizations into Dataverse for
       Teams
       Take the following steps to import your customizations into Dataverse for Teams:
         1. From the Power Apps personal app in Teams, select the Build tab of the team
          where you want to import your customizations. More information: Install the Power
          Apps personal app in Microsoft Teams
         2. Select See all, and then on the command bar, select Import.
         3. On the Import a solution page, select Browse.
       4. Locate the compressed (.zip) file that contains the solution you want to import,
        select Open, and then select Next.
       5. Review the items that you want to import.
           If you're importing an unmanaged solution, you can select the item that you
           want to import into your team. We recommend that you keep the default
           selection and import all of the items. This helps ensure that all items and their
           dependencies are imported. Import will fail when you exclude an item that
           isn't already in the team and another item in the import is dependent on it.
           If you're importing a managed solution, all the items will be imported.
       6. Depending on the components in the solution, you might be prompted for
        additional information when you select Next.
           If your solution contains connection references, you’ll be prompted to select
           the connections you want. If a connection doesn't already exist, create a new
           one.
           If your solution contains environment variables, you'll be prompted to enter
           values. You won't see this page if values are already present in your solution
           or the target environment.
       7. Select Import.
      Your solution imports in the background and might take a while. A notification appears
      on the Build tab as the solution is imported.
       After the import completes, a success or failure notification is displayed.
       The location of your solution components is different depending on whether you
       imported a managed or unmanaged solution:
          With a managed solution, all your customizations appear on the Build tab under
          Installed apps using the name of the solution.
          With an unmanaged solution, all your customizations appear on the Build tab
          under Built by this team.
       Move customizations from Microsoft Dataverse
       to Dataverse for Teams
       Create a solution in a Power Platform environment
       The first step to move your customizations from Microsoft Dataverse to Dataverse for
       Teams is to create a solution in Dataverse. Include only components that are fully
       supported for Dataverse for Teams. Solutions that include components that aren't
       supported by Dataverse for Teams won’t import.
       The following custom components can be imported into Dataverse for Teams:
          Canvas apps
          Tables
          Flows
          Bots
          Connection references
          Environment variables
        ７ Note
        Only include items that you or your team have created. Solutions that contain any
        of the standard Dataverse or Dynamics 365 tables, such as account or contact,
        won’t import.
       For information about the differences between Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse, go
       to How are Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse different?
       For information about how to create a solution with Dataverse, go to Create a solution.
       Export the solution from Dataverse
       Typically, you want to export your solution from Dataverse as managed. However, if your
       goal is to transport your customizations to Dataverse for Teams and continue your
       development from there, export your solution as an unmanaged solution. More
       information: Export solutions
       You can now import your solution into Dataverse for Teams. More information: import
       customizations into Dataverse for teams.
       Troubleshooting import failures
       If the import isn’t successful, you’ll see a notification on the solutions page that displays
       error or warning messages that were captured. Select Download Log File to capture
       details about what caused the import to fail. The most common cause for an import to
       fail is that the solution didn't contain some required components.
       When you download the log file, you'll find an XML file in your browser's default
       download folder that you can open using an XML reader, such as Microsoft Excel, to
       view the contents.
       Known issues
       When you're working with a new Dataverse for Teams environment, the Import
       command is missing because the See all link located on the Build tab isn't displayed for
       that environment.
       To work around this issue, create and save an app in the environment. When an item
       exists in the environment, the See all link is available and you'll be able to browse to the
       Build tab.
       See also
              Export solutions
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       View Dataverse for Teams table data in
       Power BI Desktop
       Article • 02/28/2023
       You can use Power BI Desktop to view data from tables in Dataverse for Teams. This
       enables you to create sophisticated reports to analyze data from your Dataverse for
       Teams tables. This is possible using a new connector that can use direct query mode for
       real-time data while enforcing the Dataverse for Teams security model when accessing
       data. Additionally, the connector automatically maps relationships.
       Prerequisites
       You must have the appropriate Power BI license to build and share Power BI reports.
       Step 1: Get the environment URL
       Follow the steps to get the URL of your Dataverse for Teams environment, which is
       required to connect from the Power BI Desktop.
         1. Start Teams, and sign in.
         2. In the left pane, select Power Apps, and then select the Build tab.
         3. Select the team in the left pane that contains the data you want to view in Power
          BI.
         4. Select the About tab, and then select Session Details to display the session details
          information. 
          Copy the Instance url value to notepad. This is the environment URL of your
                  Dataverse for Team environment. For example:
                  https://orga0e34f66.crm.dynamics.com/
            Step 2: View the table data in Power BI
               1. Open Power BI Desktop, and sign in. Don’t have Power BI Desktop? Get it now   .
               2. Select Get data.
               3. On the Get Data page, select Power Platform > Dataverse. Select Connect.
               4. Read the preview disclaimer and select Continue.
               5. On the next page, specify the environment URL that you copied earlier. Make sure
                  you remove https:// and the trailing / from the URL. So, in this case you will add
                  orga0e34f66.crm.dynamics.com. 
                  Select the data connectivity mode and select OK.
       6. On the next page, select Sign in. You'll be prompted to specify your credentials to
        sign in to your Dataverse for Teams environment. Specify your credentials and
        submit.
       7. On successful sign in, the Connect button becomes available. Select Connect.
        The environment appears in the Power BI Desktop Navigator window. Expand it to
        view the tables available to analyze. Select a table to view its data.
      For more information about working with Power BI Desktop, see Get started with Power
      BI Desktop.
      See also
      View Dataverse table data in Power BI Desktop (preview)  
      Dataverse for Teams FAQs
       Dataverse for Teams environment
       language
       Article • 02/15/2022
       A Dataverse for Teams environment is automatically created when a Teams user either
       creates an app in a team using the Power Apps app for the first time or installs an app
       (created using Power Apps app) in a team for the first time from the Teams app catalog.
       During the environment creation, the environment’s language is set to the tenant
       default language.
       The language settings for the environment define the language, sorting, and search
       formats of the tables in the environment. The default language set during the automatic
       creation of the environment can't be changed thereafter.
       When a user accesses the Power Apps app within a team in Microsoft Teams, the user’s
       language setting is compared against the default language of the Dataverse for Teams
       environment for the team. Depending on the match of the languages, the following
       happens:
         If the user's language setting matches the default language of the environment,
         the default language is used to display existing information and for creating new
         tables and columns.
         If the user's language setting is different from the default language of the
         environment and the environment:
           Doesn't have the required language pack installed, the new language pack
           matching the user's language setting will automatically be installed in the
           environment. It might take up to 15 minutes for the language pack installation
           to complete. This is a one-time installation, and will only occur the first time a
           new language is used.
           Already has the required language pack installed, the environment will use the
           user’s language.
         Also, this does not change the default language of the environment, but provides a
         localized user experience for the user when viewing the existing information in the
         team, and allows all new tables and columns created by the user to have localized
         labels that match their language.
        ） Important
                    Any existing tables or columns at the time of the language change will not be
                    translated to another language. They will continue to use the existing names.
                    In some cases, a language supported by Teams might not be available in
                    Dataverse for Teams and other Power Platform features. When this happens,
                    the nearest fallback language is used for the interface. More information:
                    Supported languages and fallbacks later in this topic.
            Example
            User A’s language is English (United States) in Teams and they create an app in a team
            called Team 1.
            User B’s language is set to French in Teams and they access the Power Apps app in Team
            1.
                  If the Dataverse for Teams environment doesn't have the French language pack
                  installed, it will be automatically installed in the environment for Team 1. The user
                  interface for User B immediately changes to French while the language pack is
                  installed. After the language pack is installed, any new tables and columns will be
                  created in the French language.
                  If the Dataverse for Teams environment for Team 1 already has the French
                  language pack installed, no additional installation is required.
            If the User B changes their language in Teams again and accesses the Power Apps app in
            the team next time, the new language pack will be installed if the language isn't already
            installed in Dataverse for Teams environment.
            Supported languages and fallbacks
            The languages supported across Teams, Dataverse for Teams, and other Power Platform
            features vary slightly. When a language is not supported by Dataverse for Teams and
            other Power Platform features, these will use an identified fallback language. Here is a
            list of the languages supported across Teams, Dataverse for Teams, and other Power
            Platform features and their fallback languages.
            The fallback languages are denoted in italics.
              Teams         Dataverse     Power Apps    Power          Power Virtual Power BI
                            for Teams     Studio        Automate       Agents
              Arabic        Arabic        English US    English US     English US    Arabic
              Teams         Dataverse     Power Apps    Power          Power Virtual Power BI
                            for Teams     Studio        Automate       Agents
              Brazilian     Brazilian     Brazilian     Brazilian      Brazilian     Brazilian
              Portuguese    Portuguese    Portuguese    Portuguese     Portuguese    Portuguese
              Bulgarian     Bulgarian     Bulgarian     Bulgarian      English US    Bulgarian
              Catalan       Catalan       Catalan       Catalan        Spanish       Catalan
              Croatian      Croatian      Croatian      Croatian       English US    Croatian
              Czech         Czech         Czech         Czech          English US    Czech
              Danish        Danish        Danish        Danish         Danish        Danish
              Dutch         Dutch         Dutch         Dutch          Dutch         Dutch
              English       English US    English US    English US     English US    English US
              (Canada)
              English UK    English US    English US    English US     English US    English US
              English US    English US    English US    English US     English US    English US
              Estonian      Estonian      Estonian      Estonian       English US    Estonian
              Flipino       English US    English US    English US     English US    English UK
              Finnish       Finnish       Finnish       Finnish        Swedish       Finnish
              French        French        French        French         French        French
              French        French        French        French         French        French
              (Canada)
              German        German        German        German         German        German
              Standard      Standard      Standard      Standard       Standard      Standard
              Greek         Greek         Greek         Greek          English US    Greek
              Hebrew        Hebrew        English US    English US     English US    Hebrew
              Hindi         Hindi         Hindi         Hindi          Hindi         Hindi
              Hungarian     Hungarian     Hungarian     Hungarian      English US    Hungarian
              Icelandic     English US    English US    English US     English US    English UK
              Indonesian    Indonesian    Indonesian    Indonesian     English US    Indonesian
              Italian       Italian       Italian       Italian        Italian       Italian
              Teams         Dataverse     Power Apps    Power          Power Virtual Power BI
                            for Teams     Studio        Automate       Agents
              Japanese      Japanese      Japanese      Japanese       Japanese      Japanese
              Korean        Korean        Korean        Korean         Korean        Korean
              Latvian       Latvian       Latvian       Latvian        English US    Latvian
              Lithuanian    Lithuanian    Lithuanian    Lithuanian     English US    Lithuanian
              Norwegian -   Norwegian -   Norwegian -   Norwegian -    Norwegian -   Norwegian -
              NB            NB            NB            NB             NB            NB
              Norwegian -   Norwegian -   Norwegian -   Norwegian -    Norwegian -   Norwegian -
              NN            NB            NB            NB             NB            NB
              Polish        Polish        Polish        Polish         Polish        Polish
              Portuguese    Portuguese    Portuguese    Portuguese     Brazilian     Portuguese
              (Portugal)    (Portugal)    (Portugal)    (Portugal)     Portuguese    (Portugal)
              Romanian      Romanian      Romanian      Romanian       English US    Romanian
              Russian       Russian       Russian       Russian        Russian       Russian
              (cyrillic)    (cyrillic)    (cyrillic)    (cyrillic)     (cyrillic)    (cyrillic)
              Serbian       Serbian       Serbian       Serbian        English US    Serbian
              (Latin)       (Latin)       (Latin)       (Latin)                      (Latin)
              Simplified    Simplified    Simplified    Simplified     Simplified    Simplified
              Chinese       Chinese       Chinese       Chinese        Chinese       Chinese
              Slovak        Slovak        Slovak        Slovak         English US    Slovak
              Slovenian     Slovenian     Slovenian     Slovenian      English US    Slovenian
              Spanish       Spanish       Spanish       Spanish        Spanish       Spanish
              Spanish       Spanish       Spanish       Spanish        Spanish       Spanish
              (Mexico)
              Swedish       Swedish       Swedish       Swedish        Swedish       Swedish
              Thai          Thai          Thai          Thai           English US    Thai
              Traditional   Traditional   Traditional   Traditional    Traditional   Traditional
              Chinese       Chinese       Chinese       Chinese        Chinese       Chinese
              Turkish       Turkish       Turkish       Turkish        Turkish       Turkish
              Ukrainian     Ukrainian     Ukrainian     Ukrainian      English US    Ukrainian
              Teams         Dataverse     Power Apps    Power          Power Virtual Power BI
                            for Teams     Studio        Automate       Agents
              Vietnamese    Vietnamese    Vietnamese    English US     English US    Vietnamese
              Welsh         English US    English US    English US     English US    English UK
            See also
            What is Dataverse for Teams?  
            Create tables 
            About the Dataverse for Teams environment
        FAQs for Dataverse for Teams
        Article • 12/16/2022
        Here is a list of frequently asked (FAQs) for Dataverse for Teams; also see Dataverse for
        Teams licensing FAQs in the Power Platform admin guide.
        What does Dataverse for Teams enable and how does this
        impact Microsoft Power Platform and Teams users?
        Power Apps developers and Power Virtual Agents chatbot creators will now be able to
        make and manage their apps and bots directly in Teams with embedded Power Apps
        and Power Virtual Agents apps. This enables a streamlined end-to-end user experience
        and allows makers to deploy to Teams with one click through the Teams app store.
        These new features are powered by Power Platform enhancement in Teams that provide
        enterprise datastores with rich data types to Microsoft 365 users and is now included in
        Microsoft 365 and Office 365 licenses.
        Also, apps built with Power Apps and used in Teams will be responsive to the form factor
        that they're loaded on, meaning a creator can build an app once for users to view full
        screen on both mobile devices and desktops.
        What value does Dataverse for Teams offer for
        professional developers?
        Dataverse includes a robust set of capabilities for professional developers, including API
        access, the ability to create plug-ins, and so on.
        Dataverse for Teams is initially focused on the low-code and no-code developer and
        does not provide access to these capabilities at launch. However, Dataverse for Teams
        capability along with premium functionality through Power apps provides professional
        developers the ability to create robust solutions with far less code, including extending
        the out-of-the-box capabilities of Power Automate with their own custom logic in Azure
        functions, connect their own web services, etc.
        When should customers use Lists versus Dataverse for
        Teams?
        Lists is great for quickly tracking data in Teams. All your lists are instantly usable inside
        of Teams. Additionally, you can build canvas apps and flows on top of your Lists just like
       you can today in SharePoint.
       Dataverse for Teams is great for building Microsoft Power Platform solutions in Teams.
       With support for files, images, and multiple related tables, Dataverse for Teams can meet
       your needs today and be promoted to the full Dataverse if you need additional capacity
       or capabilities in the future.
       How does security and governance differ between
       Dataverse and Microsoft Dataverse for Teams?
       Dataverse for Teams is enterprise grade and designed to work within Teams. Focused on
       Teams, it aligns with the core roles identified in the environment: Owners, Members, and
       Guests.
       For Dataverse for Teams, access to the environment is restricted just to the Teams
       owners, members, and guests. Granting access to the environment is managed by Teams
       Owner by adding or removing the Teams members. Key benefits include -
          Supports Teams Azure AD security group with runtime (JIT) user access and
          privilege checks.
          Auto assignment of System Administrator security role to Teams Owners.
          Ability to assign different security roles to Teams Owners and Members.
          No security settings management for Business Unit and Teams is required.
       Dataverse is designed to be used in any application (not just Teams) and includes
       additional security features such as auditing, sharing, field level and hierarchical security.
       How do users import data into tables in Dataverse for
       Teams?
       Makers have the opportunity to bring in data through both the apps they develop as
       well as via connectors in Power Apps and Power Automate.
       Which tables are available to developers in Dataverse for
       Teams?
       Dataverse for Teams makes it easy for users to create custom tables for all of their
       scenarios.
       It also includes a User table that represents the Common Data Model's User entity. Data
       stored in the User table corresponds to a user in Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).
       Does Dataverse for Teams include support for Common
       Data Model?
       The User table is included in Dataverse for Teams. A broader set of Common Data
       Model entity support is available out-of-the-box in Dataverse.
       Can I use tables from other environments?
       Applications can include data from environments that the maker has access to within
       the current tenant.
       Where can I use the new visual editor?
       In addition to the table designer experience previously found in Dataverse, Dataverse for
       Teams includes a new, easy-to-use editable grid that helps user be even more
       productive. You can also use tables from other environments subject to the normal
       permission model. The new visual editor is currently available only in Dataverse for
       Teams.
       See also
       Dataverse for Teams overview
       How are Dataverse for Teams and Dataverse different?
       Create tables
       Work with table relationships
       Microsoft Teams integration object
       Article • 12/16/2022
       You can use the Teams integration object to easily find and access the Teams integration
       features and use the improved usability of expressions while integrating your canvas
       app with Teams. The availability of a Teams integration object can be validated by
       checking the presence of Teams control from the tree view.
       There are two features available with the integration of Power Apps with Teams. You can
       get a Teams theme inside a canvas app, and you can filter data depending on the team
       or channel context.
         ７ Note
         To further integrate with Teams, you can use the Microsoft Teams connector with
         actions such as post a message, create a Teams meeting, list channels, and more.
       Get the Teams theme
       Teams uses three themes: Default, Dark, and High contrast. When using the expressions
       to retrieve theme names, you can use the names as Default, Dark, and Contrast in the
       Power Apps formula bar.
       To retrieve a theme name, use the following formula.
         Power Fx
         Switch(
             Teams.Theme.Name,
            TeamsTheme.Default,
            Color.DimGrey,
            TeamsTheme.Dark,
            Color.White,
            TeamsTheme.Contrast,
            Color.Black
            )
       In the above formula, the expression Teams.Theme.Name is used to evaluate theme
       names of Default, Dark, or Contrast and the color of the selected canvas app object is
       changed depending on the color entered in the formula.
       The Switch() function evaluates a formula and determines whether the result matches
       any value in a sequence that you specify.
       This function results in changing the background of canvas app, depending on the
       change in the theme selection in Teams.
       For example, use this formula in the Fill property of a control (such as, a rectangle) to
       change the fill color based on the selected Teams theme.
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
        Teams theme     App background
        Default (App background
        color: DimGrey)
        Dark (App background color:
        White)
        High contrast (App
        background color: Black)
       Get the Teams channel name to filter app data
       You can get the Teams channel name in canvas app functions, such as function Filter().
       To get a Teams channel name, use the following syntax:
         Power Apps
         Teams.ThisChannel.DisplayName
       For example, you can add a label and set the Text property to display the name of the
       Teams channel.
       For example, connecting to a list hosted on a SharePoint site, you can list the items in a
       default gallery.
      The list shows all items and a column representing the Teams channel name.
      Considering the Teams channel name as General, you can use the following formula to
      filter the gallery content depending on the name of the channel.
      Filter('Colors', Channel = Teams.ThisChannel.DisplayName)
      For more information about the Teams client SDK, go to Context interface. For more
      information about using context from Teams, go to Use context from teams.
      See also
      Manage your apps
      Understand Power Apps Studio
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       How to build apps for Microsoft Teams
       Article • 02/04/2023
       The sample app templates for Microsoft Teams are designed, and built with the
       following goals:
         Provide fully functional apps for Teams that have relevance across multiple
         industries.
         Provide examples of deeper integration of line-of-business data from Power Apps
         into collaborative elements of Teams to drive better more productive workloads.
         Provide examples of using good UX design with Teams and Power Apps.
         Provide extensible apps which users can modify and extend to suit their business
         requirements.
       In this article, we'll review the process that we used to build these apps, and the steps
       that you can follow when building your own Power Apps.
         Tip
        This article highlights some of the approaches taken when designing the Teams
        template apps. For additional resources on bet practices for building Power Apps,
        please refer to Power Apps guidance documentation section of the Power Apps
        docs.
       Watch this video to learn how the Power Apps templates for Microsoft Teams were
       made:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=a16dd643-8d23-4c54-a619-
       a4fe0d38c07d&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fhow-
       templates-built
       Define
       Before designing and building, you need to have an idea—can be an idea for a solution
       to a business problem, an idea for modernizing a legacy or manual process, or an idea
       for an app that will make the life of your users easier.
       Look to see if there are any existing solutions for the problem. Talk to the stakeholders,
       customers, or potential users of the app and get their input. Capture their requirements
       or user stories and prioritize based on what is the highest priority need or opportunity.
      Identify “personas” or roles of users who will use your application. At this point, you
      want to focus on defining the user’s key problems—what are their unmet needs? How
      important is it for them to solve this problem?
      Many teams tend to dive into solutioning before they've fully understood the user’s
      problem. One way to avoid this trap is to use the “Jobs to be done” framework. This
      framework helps us identify and understand the needs and goals of the users that are
      the original drivers of their actions or decisions. This artifact documents each of the
      persona’s core objective and jobs they want to accomplish in their language.
      The above example shows personas and jobs to be done for Inspection sample app
      template for store walk scenario.
      Design
      Once you've identified and validated your idea, personas, and their jobs to be done,
      now is time to design your app. It can be tempting to jump into development at this
      point, but a bit more design planning will serve you well.
      Having a plan will ensure a consistent user experience while enabling you to make the
      best design decisions for the app.
      Design user experience
      Make your design plan by creating user flow and wireframes (blueprints) for each job
      statement. This process helps to ensure the process your solution takes are logical,
      efficient, and tackles the core of the problem at hand.
      Playing with the flow can help you better understand the various pros and cons of
      different processes. This understanding allows you to select the flow and screen that will
      enable users to achieve their end goal smoothly. There are many tools available to help
      you achieve the design outcome. For example, Microsoft applications such as
      PowerPoint, Visio, or 3rd-party applications such as Figma, Adobe XD, Sketch, or even
      simple pen and paper.
      This is also a good check point to get the feedback from end users. Share these high-
      level flows with your app users and get their feedback on the end to end experience.
      The iteration at this stage is lower risk as you can quickly make changes and compare
      options.
      Once the base layout is in, now you can have some fun. Do you want a clean and crisp
      app? Or something more playful. Think about the state of mind of the user and what
      would work best for them. Wireframing the app screens also helps you to plan out what
      data connectors will be needed, and giving you an artifact you can review with the
      stakeholders to get feedback before building the app to verify that the proposed design
      addresses the requirements.
      Once you have identified the requirements and personas and prioritized the backlog,
      identify the set of features that will be needed to satisfy the “must have” items in the
      backlog. This is called the Minimum Viable Product (MVP).
      Design data model
      Along with the user experience, designing the data model of the app is also important.
      While Power Apps can connect to data from anywhere, you want to think through the
      data that is needed in the app and how it will be used. In Visio, or some other data
      diagraming tool, plan out the tables, fields, and relationships that will be needed to
      support your desired app functionality. Here's an example of the data model for
      Milestones app tables, and their relationships.
      Think through how users will need to interact with the data as you plan what field data
      types to use. For example, drop-downs for Status, Priority, and Category are updatable
      in Milestones—that's why we created a table for these options and used a lookup to link
      them to the work item. For other infrequently changing list options that aren't editable
            by users in the app, we used choice data type fields. Make sure your data design fits the
            purpose and usage patterns of your app and users.
            Develop
            Now that you've got an idea and a design, start building the app in Power Apps. If
            you're building an app using Power Apps in Teams, we recommend creating a private
            team and limiting the members of the team to only those involved in the app
            development process.
            Be sure to periodically review progress with stakeholders to get feedback. Once they see
            the app coming together, it will build excitement for the finished product, and they'll
            also provide feedback that you can use to iterate and improve the app experience.
            Validate
            Once the app functionality is complete, thoroughly test the app:
                 Test as each Persona
                 Test in Teams Desktop
                 Test in Teams Mobile
                 Test as user who isn't a member of the team if your app will be shared for broad
                 distribution (sharing with colleagues outside of the team).
                 Verify App Checker to determine if there are any issues or accessibility problems
                 with your app and address them.
                 Run the app through the Power Apps Code Review Tool  . This tool has been
                 purpose built to highlight specific areas of potential improvement in the app
                 across a range of areas such as performance, maintainability, and security.
            Deploy
            Your app is now complete and fully tested. Now it's time to onboard users. With Teams,
            you've several options that you can use to give users access to your app:
                 Add members to the team in which you developed the app.
                 Create a solution and move the app and underlying tables to a different Team
                 environment.
        Share the app for broad distribution.
      To share an app for broad distribution, follow these steps:
       1. In Teams, open the Power Apps app.
       2. Under Recent apps select See more.
       3. Select the team where your app is installed.
       4. Select Share with colleagues.
       5. In the Enter or select a security group field, enter a security group or team with
        which you want to share access to your app.
       6. Toggle Colleague can use to on for the app that you wish to share.
                 7. Select Save.
                ７ Note
                You'll need to set table permissions for the Microsoft Dataverse tables included in
                your app before users will be able to use it. For more information on table
                permissions, see Set permission and share apps with colleagues.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Add notifications to make your apps
       collaborative
       Article • 01/20/2023
       Apps in Microsoft Teams are designed to enable collaboration between people in your
       organization. When you have an app that has a hand-off of information, such as group
       A doing something that group B then needs to process, if everything happens in the
       app, users may miss important updates, and processes might stall.
       Using notifications for critical events in your apps in Teams enhances collaboration by
       proactively letting users know that something needs their attention or needs to be
       done.
       Teams and Power Platform give you many options in the ways that you can notify
       people.
          Email notifications
          SMS/text notifications
          Teams messages
          Adaptive cards
          Channel posts
       Watch this video to learn how to add notifications to make your apps collaborative:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=c17e7bd1-aa38-434e-8120-
       e26b90cb3618&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fadd-app-
       notifications
       Choose the right notification type
       How should you decide what type of notification to use? Many people default to email
       notifications, but many people also complain that they receive too many emails. Email is
       an acceptable type of notification, but it should be used sparingly. Especially for urgent
       notifications, as frequent emails are only seen after a period of time.
       Here are some questions to ask when defining the appropriate type of notification:
         1. Is the notification urgent?
          If you're creating an app to track safety issues, and there's an urgent issue that
          requires immediate attention, a notification like SMS text, push notification, or high
          priority Teams message should be used so the notification is immediately noticed.
        But don’t over-use these types of notifications for non-urgent notifications, or you
        risk irritating your users.
       2. Is the notification informational or actionable? If you're creating a notification,
        what do you want to have the notification recipient do with the notification?
        Informational notifications are to notify users, but they're for information purposes
        only. For example, in the Employee Ideas sample app template for Teams, when a
        new idea is created, a message is posted in a Teams channel notifying people that
        a new idea has been created.
        Actionable notification enable one or more follow-up activities by the recipient. In
        the extending Employee Ideas article, we show how to change the notification to
        an adaptive card so users can open the submitted idea and vote for it.
        If the notification requires that the user be able to do something with the
        notification, such as open a record or respond, an actionable notification should be
        used—such as an interactive card, or add a hyperlink to deep link to the app.
        Also, Teams makes other types of notifications more actionable by enabling
        conversations around the notification—when you post a message to a Teams
        channel, users can respond to it in the channel, facilitating the ability for multiple
        people to discuss the notification.
       3. Is the notification personal, or to a group?
        Is there a specific person that should be notified? Or, is there a group of people
        that needs to know about the notification? For personal notifications, consider
        sending a message, email, or text message so that other users aren't overloaded
        with non-applicable notifications. If the message should be seen by multiple
        people in a group, a post In a Teams channel is a better choice, as the users in the
        group can all see the message and collaborate on it.
       4. What is the frequency of notification?
        In the Inspection sample app template for Teams, by default, a message is posted
        to a Teams channel when an inspection is completed. However, if you've a high
        frequency of inspections, many messages will be posted to the channel. And when
        many notifications are posted to a channel, individual notifications can get lost.
        Think of your phone notification center—when you've a few apps giving you
        notifications, they're helpful, but if you've many apps posting updates, notifications
        become noise. In this case, you'd want to reevaluate your notifications, and either
        change the notification to only notify on urgent inspections, or issues.
        5. What is the impact on the users?
         Your colleagues are probably busy, and each interruption can add stress to their
         lives—especially in high quantities. Notifications are good if they make important
         information more available. But they can also have negative impact if too frequent
         or unnecessary. Also, arbitrary notifications can diminish a user's sense of control—
         if many messages start arriving that a user has no control over. And it can be a
         frustrating experience. Consider giving users an option in the app to control their
         notifications—this can be a settings toggle to opt in to notifications, or a
         preference to select what type of notification to receive. See extending bulletins for
         an example.
       Notifications: Power Apps or Power Automate
       When creating a notification, you have two options:
         Have your app create the notification directly.
         Or, trigger a Power Apps flow to post the notification.
       The decision as to which approach you should use depends on what type of notification
       you're using, and how the notification should be triggered. Some notification types—
       such as adaptive cards, require Power Automate. Others, like sending emails, text
       messages, or Teams channel messages can be sent from a Power Automate formula, or a
       Power Automate flow. While there isn’t a “right or wrong” answer to this question, here
       are some rules to consider:
         Notifications sent directly from an app without flow will be in the context of the
         user making the change in the app. That means that the user will need access to
         the service sending the message, and some types of messages like emails may
         come from their personal account. If you want to send messages from a service
         account or general notification mailbox, a Power Automate flow can be owned by
         a different user account, and send a message when triggered by a data condition
         (like a record being created).
         If a flow sends a notification, and is triggered directly by the app, the flow needs to
         be shared or assigned with the user triggering the flow. If a flow sends a
         notification, and is triggered by a data condition (like a record creation or update),
         the flow doesn't need to be shared or owned by the triggering user.
         By using Power Automate to send notifications, you can update your notifications
         without having to republish your app. If your notification details frequently change,
         or users other than the maker of the app need to modify them, having the
          notification sent by Power Automate can segment your workloads and enable
          other users to work on the notifications while you work on the app.
          Power Apps sending notifications directly use formulas to define the notification
          logic, Power Automate flow uses a more graphical interface to set the properties of
          a notification. For example, from a Power Apps app, you can use the following
          formula to send email with the Outlook connector:
         Power Fx
         Microsoft365Outlook.SendEmail("mailbox@contoso.com", Summary, Description)
       In Power Automate instead, the send an email action is presented in a graphical manner,
       allowing users to populate the fields in a manner similar to how they send an email in
       Outlook.
              Sending an email from Power Apps directly is faster for experienced makers, but the
              more details are required—such as attachment files and formatted text. For the less
              experienced makers, sending the email with Power Automate flow might be easier.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?            
                                         Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Integrate with Microsoft Planner
       Article • 01/20/2023
       In this article, we'll learn how to integrate Power Apps with Planner to create and assign
       tasks to users within the organization.
       Power Apps in Microsoft Teams enables collaboration between people and groups.
       Employees already use Teams to work, communicate, and collaborate. Apps in Teams
       have deep integration with other Teams capabilities. For example, in Teams, you can
       assign tasks to team members using Planner in your Teams channel. Apps that require
       follow-up by others in your team, such as to address issues reported in the Issue
       Reporting app, can leverage Planner in the Teams channel and create Tasks where users
       already manage their tasks.
       Watch this video to learn how to integrate Power Apps with Planner:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=37312c36-393d-44fd-ba8a-
       9b3dbdf8d60e&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fintegrate-
       planner
       Prerequisites
       To complete this lesson, we'd need the ability to create apps within Teams that will be
       available as part of select Microsoft 365 subscriptions. We'll also need the ability to
       connect to Planner.
       Login into Teams
       Login into Teams using either the Desktop app or the web app.
       Create a new Team
       In this section, we'll create a new Teams team and then create an app within that team.
       Skip this section if you already have a team that you want to use instead.
         1. To create a new team, select the Teams tab > select Join or create a team > select
          Create Team > select From Scratch > select Public, and give the team a name such
          as "Planner Integration". And then, select Create.
         2. Select and add any members in your organization that you'd like to add to the
          team for testing purposes, and select Add.
         3. Select Close.
           The new team gets created and is listed under the Teams tab.
       Create a new app
       We'll create an app with five fields capturing details that will be used to create a Task in
       Planner.
         1. Open Teams.
         2. Select Power Apps from the left-pane.
         3. Select + New app under Recent apps.
         4. Select the team created earlier, and select Create to open Power Apps Studio.
         5. Enter a name for the app, such as "Integrate with Planner", and select Save.
           The app shows a default gallery
         6. Select the database option from the left-pane to connect to the Planner.
         7. Select + Add data, and then select Connectors.
         8. Enter "Planner" in the search box to look for the Planner connector.
         9. Select Planner.
         10. If prompted, sign in.
           Planner gets added as a data connection to the app
         11. Select to open the Tree view.
         12. Select + New screen > Blank layout.
         13. Add the following controls.
           a. Title (text input)
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
             Property          Value
             Name              Title
             Type              Text box
             Property          Value
             X                 Screen2.Width/2
             Y                 135
             Width             320
             Height            35
           b. From Date (date picker)
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
             Property          Value
             Name              FromDate
             Type              Date picker
             X                 Screen2.Width/2
             Y                 235
             Width             320
             Height            35
           c. Due Date (date picker)
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
             Property          Value
             Name              DueDate
             Type              Date picker
             X                 Screen2.Width/2
             Y                 335
             Width             320
             Height            35
           d. Assigned To (combo box)
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
                      Property                      Value
                      Name                          AssignedTo
                      Type                          Combo box
                      X                             Screen2.Width/2
                      Y                             435
                      Width                         320
                      Height                        35
                  e. Planner ID (combo box)
                                                                                  ﾉ
                                                                                      Expand table
                      Property       Value
                      Name           PlannerID
                      Type           Combo box
                      Items          Planner.ListGroupPlans(Param("groupID")).value
                      X              Screen2.Width/2
                      Y              535
                      Width          320
                      Height         35
              14. Add the following labels.
                  a. Title
                                                                                  ﾉ
                                                                                      Expand table
                      Property                             Value
                      Name                                 Label_Title
                      X                                    365
                      Y                                    135
                      Width                                320
             Property              Value
             Height                35
           b. From Date
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
             Property          Value
             Name              Label_FromDate
             X                 365
             Y                 235
             Width             320
             Height            35
           c. Due Date
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
             Property           Value
             Name               Label_DueDate
             X                  365
             Y                  335
             Width              320
             Height             35
           d. Assigned To
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
             Property         Value
             Name             Label_AssignedTo
             X                365
             Y                435
             Width            320
             Property         Value
             Height           35
           e. Planner ID
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
             Property          Value
             Name              Label_PlannerID
             X                 365
             Y                 535
             Width             320
             Height            35
         15. Add a button to the bottom of the screen with the following properties.
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
           Property          Value
           Name              Button_CreateTask
           X                 526
           Y                 635
           Width             320
           Height            35
         16. Copy the following formula in the OnSelect property of Button_CreateTask.
            Power Fx
            Planner.CreateTaskV3(
                Param("groupId"),
                PlannerID.Selected.id,
                Title.Value,
                {
                    startDateTime: FromDate.Value,
                    dueDateTime: DueDate.Value,
                    assignments: AssignedTo.Selected.'User Name'
               }
           )
           ７ Note
           Upon selecting the Create Task button, it'll use the parameters provided in the
           formula to figure out the team for which the task is being created, the planner
           within the team the task is to be created, the Title from the text box captured
           on the screen, and the From and Due dates captured on the screen.
        17. Move Screen2 up above Screen1. If you want, you can also delete Screen1 instead.
       Save and publish the app
         1. Select Save on the top-right side of the screen to save the app.
         2. Select Publish.
         3. Select Next.
         4. Under Add to Channel, make sure the channel under which the app should be
          shown is listed and shows as at least "1 active tab(s)" and not "0 active tab(s)".
         5. Select Save and Close.
       Test the app
         1. Open the team under which the app is created.
         2. Select + Add a tab.
       3. Search for tasks by Planner to add a planner tab to the team.
       4. Enter tab name under Create a new plan, for example "Tasks Integration". And
        then, select Save.
        The tab gets added to the Team
       5. Run the app in preview mode or from within the team.
       6. Populate the columns with appropriate values.
       7. Select Create Task.
                 8. Go to the Planner tab for which the task is being created—in our example, "Tasks
                    Integration Planner".
                    A new task with the details should be added to the list.
              See Planner integration in action
              To see an example of Planner integration, check out the Issue Reporting sample app
              template for Teams. Issue Reporting makes it easy for users to report issues. These
              issues are created in Planner and assigned for follow-up.
              This integration can be easily extended to add logic to automatically assign the Planner
              Tasks or provide notifications for issue tasks.
              Feedback
              Was this page helpful?   Yes      No
              Provide product feedback
       Integrate with Azure Active Directory
       Article • 01/20/2023
       In this article, we'll learn about how to integrate apps created using Power Apps in
       Microsoft Teams with Azure Active Directory (AD).
       Integration with Azure AD enables many deep capabilities within your organization
       hierarchy, the people in your organizations, and groups. For example, you can get
       information about a person, their job title, department, or photo. You can also get
       information about the user's organization hierarchy, such as their manager.
       This integration can also be used to grant access to app functionality based on their role
       or group membership, and therefore, be used to control security to sensitive data or
       functionality.
       In this article, we'll create a Power Apps app with a button with administrative access on
       it. The visibility of the button will depend on whether the user is a member of the admin
       group or not.
       Watch this video to learn how to integrate Power Apps app with Azure Active Directory:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=9fabda9a-e9b5-43af-addd-
       a27d3f381f18&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fintegrate-
       azure-ad
       Prerequisites
       To complete this lesson, we'd need the ability to create apps within Teams that will be
       available as part of select Microsoft 365 subscriptions. We'll also need access to Azure
       AD to create the admin group and assign members to it.
       Sign in to Teams
       Login into Teams using either the Desktop app or the web app.
       Create a new Team
       In this section, we'll create a new team, and then create an app within that team. Skip
       this section if you already have a team that you want to use instead of creating a new
       one.
                 1. To create a new team, select the Teams tab, and then select Join or create a team
                   on the left bottom of the screen.
                 2. Select Create Team > From Scratch > Public, give the team a name such as "Azure
                   AD Integration", and select Create.
                 3. (Optional) If you have any members in your organization that you'd like to add to
                   the team for testing purposes, select them, and add them in the popup for adding
                   members.
                 4. Select Close.
             The new team gets created, and is listed under the Teams tab.
             Create a new Azure AD Group
                 1. Sign in to Azure portal   with the same account that you logged into Teams with
                   earlier.
                 2. On the top search bar, search for and select Groups.
                 3. Select + New Group.
                 4. Set up the group with the following values:
                                                                                         ﾉ Expand table
                    Option                            Value
                    Group type                        Microsoft 365
                    Group name                        Admin Access
                    Group email address               Automatically updated
                    Group description                 Group for users with Admin access
                 5. Select Create.
                 6. Copy the group's object ID from the group overview screen for use later.
             Create a new app
             We'll create an app with a button that will only show up if the user is a member of the
             team we created above.
       1. Open the Teams app.
       2. Select Power Apps.
       3. Select + New app under Recent apps.
       4. Select the team created earlier, and then select Create.
       5. The app gets created, and the Power Apps Studio opens to allow editing the app.
       6. Enter a name for the app, such as "Integrate with Azure AD", and then select Save.
       7. Select Data > Add data.
       8. In the connectors list, search for Azure AD, and select it to add that as a
        connection.
       9. Select Connect.
       10. Sign in, and select Accept to connect.
       11. In the Tree view, select + New screen to add a new screen to the app.
       12. Select + (Insert) icon on the left-pane.
       13. Select Button.
       14. Set the "Text" property of the button to “Admin access”.
       15. Select + (Insert) again, and then select label control to add.
       16. Update the label text to "Admin level: ".
               17. Select the app from the tree view, and open the OnStart property from the top-left
                   of the screen.
               18. Enter the following formula for the app OnStart:
                      Power Fx
                      If(
                          !IsEmpty(
                              AzureAD.CheckMemberGroups(
                                  User().Email,
                                  ["Enter your Azure group ID here"]
                              ).Value
                          ),
                          Set(varAdmin,true),
                          Set(varAdmin,false)
                      )
                      ７ Note
                      Update the formula with the group ID (GUID) for the group you copied
                      earlier.
               19. Select ... (ellipsis) next to the app, and then select Run OnStart.
               20. Select ... (ellipsis) next to Settings on the top ribbon, and select to view variables.
                   varAdmin is set to False.
               21. Select Screen 2 from the Tree view, and update the Text formula for the label to
                   "Admin Level: " & varAdmin. The label will currently show as "Admin level: false"
                   on the screen.
                   We'll now control the visibility of the Admin Access button so that it only shows up
                   when the user is an admin (for example, belongs to the Admin access group in
                   Azure AD)
               22. Select the button, and set the Visible property to "varAdmin".
                   The button doesn't show up anymore since we don't have admin access.
             Testing the integration
                 1. Sign in to Azure portal  .
                 2. Select the group created earlier.
         3. Select Members under Manage from the left-pane.
         4. Select + Add members to add members to the group/
         5. Select users from the list of users under Add members to add to the group.
         6. Select Select. Selected users get added to the group.
         7. Go back to Teams.
         8. Select Tree view.
         9. Select the app > Run OnStart.
       The admin access button is now visible on Screen 2, and the label shows admin level as
       true since we're now members of the Admin access group.
       See Azure AD integration in action
       You can see an example of Azure AD integration in the Profile+ sample app template for
       Teams.
          Office 365 Users connector is used to retrieve the user profile, including name,
          photo, manager, and other details.
          Office 365 Groups connector is used to retrieve the people who report to a
          selected user.
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
       Integrate with calls and meetings
       Article • 01/20/2023
       Apps in Microsoft Teams drive collaboration by enabling users to do work where they
       communicate and collaborate. Many apps require a “back and forth” communication or
       passing items between people. For example, in the Inspection sample app template for
       Teams, managers create inspection forms, users complete the inspection, and reviewers
       review the inspections.
       Power Apps in Teams can leverage deep integration with other Teams capabilities to
       make apps collaborative. In this article, we'll learn how we can integrate Power Apps
       with Teams to make calls or schedule meetings with other users within the organization.
       Watch this video to learn how to integrate Power Apps with calls and meetings:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=022e5ad1-7a6d-49bb-99de-
       93dd4041bebd&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fintegrate-
       calls-and-meetings
       Prerequisites
       To complete this lesson, we'd need the ability to create apps within Teams that will be
       available as part of select Microsoft 365 subscriptions.
       Log in into Teams
       Log in into Teams using either the Desktop app or the web app
       Create a new team
       In this section, we'll create a new Teams team, and then create an app within that team.
       Skip this section if you already have a team that you want to use.
         1. To create a new team, select the Teams tab > select Join or create a team on the
          bottom-left side of the screen > select Create Team > select From Scratch > select
          Public, and give the team a name such as "Calls and Meetings Integration". And
          then, select Create.
         2. If you have any members in your organization you'd like to add to the team for
          testing purposes, add them in the pop-up, and then select Add.
         3. Select Close.
       The new team gets created and is listed under the Teams tab
       Create a new app
       Well create an app with a gallery of users and buttons on each of the display forms to
       either call, chat or schedule a meeting with a user from the list.
         1. Open Teams app.
         2. Select Power Apps from the left-pane.
         3. Select + New app under Recent apps.
         4. Select the team created earlier, and select Create to open the app in Power Apps
          Studio.
         5. Enter a name for the app, such as "Integrate with calls and meetings".
         6. Select Save.
          The app shows a default gallery
         7. Select the gallery, and search for users in the Add a data source search box.
         8. Select Users from the list of data sources.
          The list of users shows in the gallery on the left-side of the screen. The right-side
          of the screen shows details of the selected user record.
         9. Select the app from the left-pane, and update the OnStart property of the app
          with the following formula:
            Power Fx
            Set(gblIsHostClientWeb,Param("hostClientType")="web")
            ７ Note
            This formula checks if the user is accessing Teams from a web browser,
            desktop, or a mobile app.
        10. Select Screen1 from the Tree view.
           11. Select + (Insert) > Button to add a button.
           12. Move the button to the details pane on the right-side of the screen.
           13. Set the following properties of the button.
                                                                ﾉ Expand table
               Property                            Value
               Text                                "Call"
               Width                               150
               Height                              45
               X                                   500
               Y                                   300
              Copy the following formula in the OnSelect property of the button:
                Power Fx
                If(
                    gblIsHostClientWeb,
                    Launch(
                        "https://teams.microsoft.com/l/call/0/0?
                users="&BrowseGallery1.Selected.'Primary Email',
                        {},
                        LaunchTarget.New
                    ),
                    Launch(
                        "msteams://teams.microsoft.com/l/call/0/0?
                users="&BrowseGallery1.Selected.'Primary Email',
                        {},
                        LaunchTarget.New
                    )
                )
                ７ Note
                    If the user is accessing Teams using a web browser, this will launch the
                    call window in the browser itself because of https:// protocol identifier.
                    If the user is accessing Teams using the Teams desktop or mobile app,
                    then it launches the call window in the Teams app itself because of
                    msteams:// instead.
               The format to launch a call through a deep-link is:
               https://teams.microsoft.com/l/call/0/0?users=\<user1\>,\<user2].
               More information: Generate a deep link to a call
         14. Add another button with the following properties:
                                                 ﾉ Expand table
           Property        Value
           Text            "Schedule a Meeting"
           Width           150
           Height          45
           X               Button1.X + 200
           Y               Button1.Y
         15. Copy the following formula in the OnSelect property of the new button:
            Power Fx
            If(
                gblIsHostClientWeb,
                Launch(
                    "https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meeting/new?
            subject=New%20Meeting&attendees="&BrowseGallery1.Selected.'Primary 
            Email',
                    {},
                    LaunchTarget.New
                ),
                Launch(
                    "msteams://teams.microsoft.com/l/meeting/new?
            subject=New%20Meeting&attendees="&BrowseGallery1.Selected.'Primary 
            Email',
                    {},
                    LaunchTarget.New
                )
            )
         16. Add a third button with the following properties
                                                 ﾉ
                                                   Expand table
           Property          Value
           Text              "Chat"
           Width             150
           Height            45
           X                 Button2.X + 200
           Y                 Button1.Y
        17. Copy the following formula in the OnSelect property of the new button:
            Power Fx
            If(
                gblIsHostClientWeb,
                Launch(
                    "https://teams.microsoft.com/l/chat/0/0?
            users="&BrowseGallery1.Selected.'Primary 
            Email'&"&topicName=&message=Hi!",
                    {},
                    LaunchTarget.New
                ),
                Launch(
                    "msteams://teams.microsoft.com/l/chat/0/0?
            users="&BrowseGallery1.Selected.'Primary 
            Email'&"&topicName=&message=Hi!",
                    {},
                    LaunchTarget.New
                )
            )
          The screen should appear as shown below
       Save and publish the app
         1. Select Save on the top-right side of the screen to save the app.
         2. Select Publish to publish the app.
         3. Select Next in the pop-up.
         4. Under Add to Channel, make sure the channel under which the app should be
          shown is listed and shows as "1 active tab(s)" and not "0 active tab(s)".
         5. Select Save and Close.
       Test the app
         1. Run the app in the preview mode.
         2. Select a user from the list on the left.
         3. If you don't have a user showing up in the list, share the app with another
          colleague/user. Once that user logs in into the app, they'll show up in this list of
          users.
         4. Select the user from the list.
         5. Test the options.
       The call button launches a new call. The meeting button creates a meeting invitation
       with the selected person
       See chat, call, and meeting integration in action
       For an example of chat, call, and meeting integration in action, check out the Profile +
       sample app for template Teams.
       When opened from within a Team, the app displays the other members of the team. You
       can select the Select people to connect with and select one or more people, then start
       a call or chat with the selected people, or schedule a meeting.
       Feedback
        Was this page helpful?
                     Yes  No
        Provide product feedback
       Enable consistent experience across
       sessions using LoadData and SaveData
       functions
       Article • 01/20/2023
       Microsoft Dataverse for Microsoft Teams delivers a built-in, low-code data platform for
       Teams. It provides relational data storage, rich data types, enterprise-grade governance,
       and one-click solution deployment. Dataverse for Teams enables everyone to easily
       build and deploy apps.
       While there are numerous advantages of using Power Apps in Teams, one of the biggest
       design considerations is the ability to keep consistent experience across sessions.
       While using an app, if we switch a tab in Teams to look at Wiki or Planner, or even chat
       with someone, the session data of the app is lost and we'd have to start the session
       from scratch. For example, if we're in the middle of an inspection using the Inspections
       app and we switch tabs even for a moment, all the data that was captured on the
       inspection would be lost and we'll have to recapture all that information.
       In this article, we'll learn how to use the LoadData() and SaveData() functions to store
       the session data within the app to avoid any loss of work because of switching tabs in
       Teams.
       Watch this video to learn how to enable consistent experience across sessions:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=e669c7fe-3f11-43ad-8233-
       0dbbb374bec5&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fconsistent-
       experience-across-sessions
       Prerequisites
       To complete this lesson, we'd need the ability to create apps within Teams that is
       available as part of select Microsoft 365 subscriptions.
       Log in into Teams
       Log in into Teams using Teams Desktop.
       Create a new Team
       To create a new team:
        1. Select the Teams tab.
        2. Select Join or create a team on the bottom-left of the screen.
        3. Select Create a team from scratch.
        4. Select Public and give the team a name. In this example, we'd use "MSFT Partners".
        5. Select Create.
       The new team gets created and is listed under the Teams tab.
       Create a Power Apps app in Teams
       To create a Power Apps app in teams, we need to open Power Apps Studio in Teams as
       shown below.
       1. Select Power Apps from the list of apps and pin it to the left-pane, and then select
        it.
       2. Select Start now to create the first app.
       3. Select the team for which this app is to be created—a Power Apps environment is
        created for that team (there's one Power Apps environment per team).
       4. While the environment is being created, close the dialog box that says Getting
        things ready.
       5. Select the Build tab on top, and in a few seconds the created app should appear in
        the list.
       6. Open the app, and notice it gets created in the tablet layout/form factor by
        default.
       7. Enter a name for the app Persistent session example app, and select Save.
        The app gets created with a gallery.
       8. Select Create new table to create a new table.
       9. Enter Accounts, and select Create.
       10. Add two columns—Phone with data type of Phone, and City with data type of Text.
       11. Add sample data to the three columns.
       12. Repeat to add at least five records.
       13. Select Close.
          The accounts table gets added as a data table
        14. Select Tree View > Select BrowseGallery1 > Select Accounts as the data source.
       Publish the app in Teams
        1. Select Publish to Teams.
        2. Select Next.
       3. Select + to add the app to the "General" channel.
         4. Go to the Persistent Session Example team, and notice the Persistent session
          example app shows up on the top as a tab.
       Testing the issue
         1. Open the Persistent session example app from the Persistent Session Example
          team.
         2. Select New Record to create a new account in the app.
         3. Enter the name and phone number
         4. Before you enter City and save the record, switch to a different tab (like Files or
          Wiki on top or a different team), and then come back to the app.
         5. Notice that the data entered in the two columns is no longer available on the
          screen and is lost
       Solution: Use SaveData() and LoadData()
       functions
       To resolve the above issue, we'll use the LoadData() and SaveData() functions. We'll
       create a collection for the data entered on a form as and when data is entered, and keep
       saving the data in the collection until the record has been committed or saved. This way,
       if the record hasn't been saved and we must tab out of the screen for some reason, the
       collection would have the saved data that would get loaded once we're back in the app.
       We'll also clear the collection once the record has been saved so that the collection is
       ready to capture new data when the next new record is being created.
         1. Start with making sure that the changes we're applying are applicable only in the
          case of a new record. So, we're updating the variable newMode that will be used
          as a condition on the edit form to figure out what data needs to be displayed.
          Select New record and add the following formula on the OnSelect property of the
          button:
            Power Fx
            NewForm(EditForm1);
            UpdateContext({newMode: true})
         2. Next, we'll add the data from the individual input controls to a collection, and then
          we'll save the data to a local file from that collection. Select the text input box—in
          our example it's the "DataCardValue1" of the "Name_DataCard1" on "EditForm1"
          for the Name field—enter the following formula in the OnChange property of the
          input field:
            Power Fx
            Collect(
                colAccount,    
                { Column:"Name",Value:Self.Value}
            );
            SaveData(colAccount,"colAccount").
          With this change, we're adding the data to a local cache so that if the user leaves
          the app, their data won't be lost.
          Similarly, enter the following code in the OnChange property for Phone
          (DataCardValue2):
            Power Fx
            Collect(colAccount, {Column:"Phone",Value:Self.Value});
            SaveData(colAccount,"colAccount");
          And enter the following code in OnChange property for City (DataCardValue3):
            Power Fx
            Collect(colAccount {Column:"City", Value:Self.Value});
            SaveData(colAccount, "colAccount");
         3. Now we'll update the App OnStart so that if there's any data saved in the
          collection, that would get loaded on the start of the app.
          Go to the App > OnStart property, and add the following formula:
            Power Fx
            LoadData(colAccount,"colAccount", true)
         4. Next, we need to update the Default property of the data fields so that when the
          page loads once we come back to the app, if data exists in the collection, it should
          show the data from the collection by default.
          Select the field DataCard and update the Default property of the data card to the
          following formula for the listed fields.
          For Name field, enter Name_DataCard1:
            Power Fx
            If(
                newMode && !IsBlank(
                    Last(
                        Filter(colAccount, Column = "Name")
                    ).Value
                ),
                Last(
                    Filter(colAccount, Column = "Name")
                ).Value,
                If(newMode, Blank(), ThisItem.Name)
            )
          Similarly, enter the following formula in the Default property formula for Phone
          (Phone_DataCard1):
            Power Fx
            If(
                newMode && !IsBlank(
                    Last(
                        Filter(colAccount, Column ="Phone")
                    ).Value
                ),
                Last(
                    Filter(colAccount, Column = "Phone")
                ).Value,
                If(newMode, Blank(), ThisItem.Phone)
            )
          And use the following formula for City (City_DataCard1):
            Power Fx
            If(
                newMode && !IsBlank(
                    Last(
                        Filter(colAccount, Column = "City")
                    ).Value
                ),
                Last(
                    Filter(colAccount, Column = "City")
                ).Value,
                If(newMode,Blank(), ThisItem.City)
            )
         5. Now, we need to clear the collection in two scenarios:
           a. When the user submits the form, and the changes get saved.
          b. When the user selects the cancel button to cancel the changes.
          Use the following formula in the OnSelect property of the Submit button.
            Power Fx
            SubmitForm(EditForm1);
            UpdateContext({editMode: false, newMode: false});
            Clear(colAccount);
            SaveData(colAccount, "colAccount");
          Select the Cancel button, and enter the following formula:
            Power Fx
            ResetForm(EditForm1);
            UpdateContext({editMode: false, newMode: false});
            Clear(colAccount);
            SaveData(colAccount, "colAccount");
         6. Publish the apps after making all the above changes by selecting Publish to Teams.
       Test the app again
         1. Go to the team and run the app.
         2. Select + New record, and add the name and phone details for the new record.
         3. Select another tab to move out of the app.
         4. Come back to the app—it shows details of the first account.
        5. Now, when we select + New again, we'll see the Name and Phone details
          populated in those text input fields already. And we can resume adding the
          account we were adding before we had to tab out of the app.
       How we use SaveData and LoadData in the
       Inspection app
       In the Inspection sample app template, we use load data and save data on the
       inspection form—if a user is in the middle of an inspection, and they switch away from
       the apps in Teams (like to send someone a message), we don’t want them to lose their
       place in the inspection. When they return to the app tab in Teams, the app gives them
       the option to resume the in-progress inspection.
       Considerations
       In Dataverse for Teams, there are some limits to the SaveData() and LoadData()
       capabilities.
          1-MB limit on Teams Desktop.
          Doesn't work in a browser.
          Apps in mobile are limited by the amount of local storage available to the app.
       Feedback
        Was this page helpful?
                     Yes  No
        Provide product feedback
       Have a conversation about your business data
       in a Teams app
       Article • 01/20/2023
       Apps in Microsoft Teams drive collaboration by enabling users to do work where they communicate and
       collaborate. One way to make your apps collaborative is by adding the ability to have a conversation about
       your app or the data in your app. Teams is your go-to place to have such conversations.
       For example, in the Profile+ sample app template for Teams, when you select one or more profile cards in the
       app, you can start a chat with the selected people directly in Teams.
       You might also want to use this capability for your apps. For example, if you're building a sales opportunity
       tracker for the sales manager to review upcoming deals, you might want to add a button for the user to chat
       with the sales person about the opportunity.
       This way, Power Apps in Teams can use deep integration with other Teams capabilities to make apps
       collaborative. In this article, we'll learn how we can integrate Power Apps with Teams to facilitate conversations.
       Watch this video to learn how to configure having conversations about business data in Teams app:
       https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=aeacd56d-232b-4187-83f0-
       e15dc4103f43&locale=en-us&embedUrl=%2Fpower-apps%2Fteams%2Fbusiness-data
       Prerequisites
       To complete this lesson, we'd need the ability to create apps within Teams that will be available as part of select
       Microsoft 365 subscriptions.
       Log in into Teams
       Log in into Teams using either the Desktop app or the web app
       Create a new Team
       In this section, we'll create a new Teams team and then create an app within that team. Skip this section if you
       already have a team you want to use instead.
         1. To create a new team, select the Teams tab, and then select Join or create a team on the left bottom of
          the screen.
         2. Select Create Team > From Scratch > Public, give the team a name such as "Calls and Meetings
          Integration", and select Create.
         3. (Optional) If you have any members in your organization that you'd like to add to the team for testing
          purposes, select them, and add them in the popup for adding members.
         4. Select Close.
       The new team gets created, and is listed under the Teams tab.
       Create a new app
       We'll create an app where the user can start a conversation for a particular team and Channel by selecting a
       button and typing in a message in a text box. The user can then select the Submit button to post the message
       in the particular team and channel in Teams, then other user can join the conversation.
        1. Open Teams.
        2. Select Power Apps from the left-pane.
        3. Select + New app under Recent apps.
        4. Select the team created earlier, and then select Create.
          The app gets created and Power Apps Studio opens to allow editing the app.
        5. Enter a name for the app, such as "Conversation app", and select Save.
          The app is created with a default gallery on Screen 1.
       Add Teams as a connector
       We need to add Teams as a connector to the app since we want to be able to access the teams and channels
       from the logged in user’s account.
        1. Select Data from the left-pane.
        2. Select + Add data, and then select Connectors.
        3. Scroll down and select See all connectors.
        4. Search for and select Teams connector.
       Add a new table to capture company record
       We need to add a table to maintain a list of companies we'll use as the company record, and to start a
       conversation about it.
        1. Select Data from the left-pane.
        2. Select + Add data and then create a new table with the name "Company", and plural name as
          "Companies".
        3. Add a few company names to the table, and then select Close.
       Add a new screen to select the customer
       Next, we'll add a screen to the app so that users can select the customer that they want to have the
       conversation about.
        1. In the tree view, select + New screen > select Scenarios tab > select List.
          A new screen gets added with a gallery list.
        2. Update the title of the gallery to "Companies List".
        3. Select Companies as the data source for the gallery.
           The list of companies that was added shows up in the gallery TemplateGalleryList1.
          4. Delete Screen1 from the tree view, and rename the new screen to Screen1.
        Add a new table to capture the conversation details
        We need to add another table to capture the details such as the Teams conversation ID, team, and channel
        related to a conversation started in the app.
          1. Select Data > + Add data > Create new table.
          2. Enter table name as Conversation and plural name as Conversations.
          3. Change the default Name column name to ID.
          4. Add the following columns to the conversation table:
                                                               ﾉ Expand table
            Column              Type
            Team                Text
            Team Channel        Text
            Team Name           Text
            Channel Name        Text
            Company             Lookup, related table= Company
          5. Save and close the table.
        Add a new screen to start or join a conversation
        Now, we'll add a new screen where the app user can start or join a conversation.
          1. In the tree view, select + New screen > Blank layout.
          2. Update the Fill property of the screen to something other than white color.
           In our example, we've set the Fill property of the screen to RGBA(224, 224, 237, 1).
          3. Select + (Insert) > Input > Button.
          4. Update the following properties of the button.
                                                               ﾉ
                                                                 Expand table
            Property   Value
            Name       startaconversation_Button
            Text       "Start a conversation"
            Width      200
            Height     32
                    Property          Value
                    Font size         12
                    X                  Parent.Width/2 - startaconversation_Button.Width/2
                    Y                 100
                    OnSelect           Set(enterMessage,true)
                5. Select + (Insert) > Input > Combo box.
                6. Update the following properties of the Combo box.
                                                                                                          ﾉ Expand table
                    Property              Value
                    Name                  team_Combobox
                    Items                  MicrosoftTeams.GetAllTeams().value
                    Width                 320
                    Height                32
                    X                      Parent.Width/2 - team_ComboBox.Width/2
                    Y                     200
                    Text                  "Team"
                    Tooltip               "Team"
                    Visible               enterMessage
                7. Add another combo box and update the following properties.
                                                                                                          ﾉ
                                                                                                              Expand table
                    Property  Value
                    Name      channel_Combobox
                    Items      If(!IsBlank(team_ComboBox.Selected.id),MicrosoftTeams.GetChannelsForGroup(team_ComboBox.Selected.id).value)
                    Width     320
                    Height    32
                    X          Parent.Width/2 - channel_ComboBox.Width/2
                    Y         200
                    Text      "Channel"
                    Tooltip   "Channel"
                    Visible   enterMessage
                8. Select + (Insert) > Input > Text box.
             9. Update the following properties of the Textbox.
                                                                                  ﾉ
                                                                                     Expand table
                Property           Value
                Name               message_TextBox
                Value              ""
                Width              500
                Height             180
                X                  Parent.Width/2 - message_TextBox.Width/2
                Y                  300
                Placeholder        Type message here
                Visible            enterMessage
            10. Select + (Insert) > Input > Button.
            11. Update the following properties of the button.
                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
                Property         Value
                Name             submit_Button
                Value            "Submit"
                Width            96
                Height           32
                Font size        12
                X                Parent.Width/2 - submit_Button.Width/2
                Y                500
                Visible          enterMessage
            12. Copy the following formula in the OnSelect event of the button.
                Power Fx
                Patch(Conversations,Defaults(Conversations),
                {ID:MicrosoftTeams.PostMessageToChannelV3(team_ComboBox.Selected.id,channel_ComboBox.Selecte
                d.id,{content:message_TextBox.Value,contentType: "text"},{subject:"New 
                conversation"}).id,Team:team_ComboBox.Selected.id,'Team 
                Channel':channel_ComboBox.Selected.id, 'Team 
                Name':team_ComboBox.Selected.displayName,'Channel 
                Name':channel_ComboBox.Selected.displayName, Company: TemplateGalleryList1.Selected}); 
                Set(enterMessage,false); Reset(team_ComboBox);Reset(channel_ComboBox);Reset(message_TextBox)
                ７ Note
                    In the above formula, we're using the Patch function to create a row in the Conversations table
                    to capture the conversation ID along with the team, team name, channel and channel came. At
                    the same time, we're also posting a message in the appropriate team and channel using the
                    PostMessageToChannelV3 function. We then set the enterMessage variable back to "false" to
                    hide some of the fields and buttons whose visibility depends on this variable.
                    The subject is hardcoded to “New conversation" to keep the app simple ,and not add another
                    text box control to capture. But a text box can be added for subject to the screen and can be
                    captured by the user. This formula will need to be adjusted accordingly to reference that
                    control. The Reset function doesn't work for the Fluent UI Combobox control. This is needed to
                    not have any team or channel selected once a message is posted.
            13. Select + (Insert) > Input > Button.
            14. Update the following properties of the button.
                                                                                  ﾉ Expand table
                Property         Value
                Name             joinconversation_Button
                Text             "Join conversation"
                Width            200
                Height           32
                Font size        12
                X                Parent.Width/2 - submit_Button.Width/2
                Y                500
                Visible          enterMessage
            15. Copy the following formula in the OnSelect event of the button.
                Power Fx
                Launch(Concatenate("msteams://teams.microsoft.com/l/message/",Last(Sort(Conversations, 
                'Created On', Ascending)).'Team Channel',"/",Gallery1.Selected.etag,"?
                tenantId=",Param("tenandId"),"&groupId=",Last(Sort(Conversations, 'Created On', 
                Ascending)).Team,"&parentMessageId=",LookUp(MicrosoftTeams.GetMessagesFromChannel(Last(Sort(
                Conversations, 'Created On', Ascending)).Team,Last(Sort(Conversations, 'Created On', 
                Ascending)).'Team Channel').value,id = Last(Sort(Conversations, 'Created On', 
                Ascending)).Team).etag,"&teamName=",Last(Sort(Conversations, 'Created  On', 
                Ascending)).'Team Name',"&channelName=",Last(Sort(Conversations, 'Created On', 
                Ascending)).'Channel Name'),{},LaunchTarget.New)
                ７ Note
                    In the above formula, we're using the Launch function to launch Teams using the team and
                    channel parameters of the last record that was created in the Conversations table. We're doing
                    this so that when a user starts a conversation and submits a message to post to a channel, the
                    user can then select the Join Conversation button to go to the Teams post directly.
              We're using the last function here to keep it simple. If you anticipate using this app more
              extensively and anticipate having multiple conversations, you could get creative by using a
              gallery of conversations, and letting the user select which conversation they'd want to join.*
       Update the gallery OnSelect Property
       Next, we'll update the OnSelect property of the company gallery so that when a user selects a company from
       the list, the app will go to the second screen.
         1. Select Screen1 from the tree view to open the Companies gallery.
         2. Set the OnSelect property of the gallery item to Navigate(Screen2).
       Save and publish the app
         1. Select Save on the top-right to save the app.
         2. Select Publish on the top-right to publish the app.
         3. Select Next.
         4. Under Add to Channel, make sure the channel under which the app should be shown is listed and shows
          as "1 active tab(s)" and not "0 active tab(s)".
         5. Select Save and Close to complete the publishing of the app.
       Testing the app
       Run the app in preview mode or go to the team in which the app is created.
         1. The Companies gallery should show up as the first screen.
         2. Select one of the companies.
         3. You should only see two buttons: Start a conversation and Join a conversation.
         4. Select Start a conversation.
         5. Additional fields should show up:
            Team (dropdown with a list of teams)
            Channel (dropdown list of channels within the selected team)
            Message box (text box to type in the message to be sent to the team)
            Submit button (to submit the message)
         6. Select a team.
         7. Select a channel within the team.
         8. Enter message.
         9. Select Submit. All the additional fields/controls get hidden.
        10. Select Join conversation to be taken to the team and channel chat where the last message was sent.
               Feedback
               Was this page helpful?   Yes       No
               Provide product feedback
       Build an app to retrieve Power Platform
       videos for readiness
       Article • 02/04/2023
       In this tutorial, you’ll build a solution that retrieves, lists, and displays content that can
       be used for readiness.
       Objective
       The focus of this tutorial will be on finding, retrieving, browsing, and playing video
       content available on YouTube or RSS Feeds with MP4 video files. It will continually
       monitor these channels and feeds for new content, and send a message to a specified
       Microsoft Team when new content is available.
       The channels and feeds in the tutorial will focus on Power Platform content but can
       easily be used for other topics.
       In this tutorial, you’ll use:
          Power Apps to build the application to specify the YouTube channels and RSS
          feeds.
          Power Automate to retrieve information about new and existing videos.
          Microsoft Dataverse for Teams to create tables to store the feed and video
          information.
          Power Automate to send a message to Microsoft Teams when a new video is
          delivered.
            Prerequisites
                 Identify an existing Microsoft Team or create a new Microsoft Team that you’ll
                 build your app for.
                 Identify an existing channel or create a new channel within Microsoft Teams to
                 post the messages sent, to specify that a new video has been retrieved.
            If you’re unfamiliar with how to create a Team or a channel in a Team, see Create a
            channel in Teams  .
            In this tutorial, we'll use a channel named "Readiness".
            Step 1: Install and pin Power Apps in Teams
            In this section, you’ll install the Power Apps app in Teams and pin it to the left rail so you
            can easily access it. To learn how to do install and pin the Power Apps app, see Install
            the Power Apps personal app in Microsoft Teams.
            If you’ve already done installed and pinned the Power Apps app, you can skip to the
            next step.
            Step 2: Create the app and the tables
            In this section, you’ll take the initial steps to create the application.
               1. Select the Power Apps app.
               2. Select the Build tab at the top of the screen.
               3. Select Create shown in the lower left of the screen.
                 This action will display the Create an app dialog box.
               4. Select the name of the team from the drop-down list and select Create.
         ７ Note
         If this is the first time you’ve tried to create an app in this Microsoft Teams
         team, it will take a moment to set up.
       5. When prompted for the name of the app, enter Video Library and select Save.
      Step 2.1: Create the table for the feeds
      In this section, you'll create a table to store the names and details for the feeds that will
      be used by the application.
       1. Select Create new table on the left side of the screen.
       2. When prompted for the name of the table, enter Feeds.
       3. Select Create.
      Step 2.1.1: Edit the Name column
       1. In the visual editor, select the drop-down menu for the Name column and then
        Edit column.
       2. Change the name to Title.
       3. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
       4. Select Save.
      Step 2.1.2: Create the Description column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
       2. Specify the name as Description.
       3. For Type, select Text from the list.
       4. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
       5. Select Create.
      Step 2.1.3: Create the Image Link column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
       2. Specify the name as Image Link.
       3. For Type, select URL from the list.
       4. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
       5. Select Create.
      Step 2.1.4: Create the Image Title column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
       2. Specify the name as Image Title.
       3. For Type, select Text from the list.
       4. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
                 5. Select Create.
             Step 2.1.5: Create the Last Retrieved column
                 1. Select + to create a new column.
                 2. Specify the name as Last Retrieved.
                 3. For Type, select Text from the list.
                 4. Select Create.
             Step 2.1.6: Create the Link column
                 1. Select + to create a new column.
                 2. Specify the name as Link.
                 3. For Type, select URL from the list.
                 4. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
                 5. Select Create.
             Step 2.1.7: Create the Published On column
                 1. Select + to create a new column.
                 2. Specify the name as Published On.
                 3. For Type, select Text from the list.
                 4. Select Create
             Step 2.1.8: Add a row
             In the visual editor, add a row for the Microsoft show "#LessCodeMorePower" that will
             be used in testing.
                                                                                          ﾉ
                                                                                              Expand table
               Title           #LessCodeMorePower (HD) - Channel 9
               Description     The show all about Power Apps. Learn more here!
              Title           #LessCodeMorePower (HD) - Channel 9
              Image Link      https://sec.ch9.ms/content/feedimage.png
              Image Title     #LessCodeMorePower (HD) - Channel 9
              Link            https://s.ch9.ms/Shows/Less-Code-More-Power/feed/mp4high
               ７ Note
               Leave the Published On column empty.
             The visual editor should resemble the image below.
             Select Close to close the visual editor.
             The screen created automatically in the app, named Screen1, should automatically bind
             to the table, displaying the fields in the table and the record you added.
             The screen should resemble the image below.
             Step 2.2: Create the table for the feed items
             In this section, you'll create a table to store the details for the videos stored in the Feed
             Items for the YouTube channel or RSS feed.
                1. Select Add data on the left side of the screen.
                2. Select Create new table.
       3. When prompted for the name of the table, enter Feed Items.
      Step 2.2.1: Edit the Name column
       1. In the visual editor, select the drop-down for the Name column, and then select
        Edit column.
       2. Change the name to Feed Item ID.
       3. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
       4. Select Save.
      Step 2.2.2: Create the Feed column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
       2. Specify the name as Feed.
       3. For Type, select Lookup from the list.
       4. For the table, select Feeds from the list
       5. Select Create.
      Step 2.2.3: Create the Title column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
       2. Specify the name as Title.
       3. For Type, select Text from the list.
       4. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
       5. Select Create.
      Step 2.2.4: Create the Description column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
       2. Specify the name as Description.
       3. For Type, select Text from the list.
       4. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 2500.
       5. Select Create.
      Step 2.2.5: Create the Primary Feed Link column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
       2. Specify the name as Primary Feed Link.
       3. For Type, select URL from the list.
       4. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
       5. Select Create.
      Step 2.2.6: Create the Video Link column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
       2. Specify the name as Video Link.
       3. For Type, select URL from the list.
       4. Select Advanced options and then change the value for Max length to 255.
       5. Select Create.
      Step 2.2.7: Create the Published On column
       1. Select + to create a new column.
         2. Specify the name as Published On
         3. For Type, select Text from the list.
         4. Select Create.
       The visual editor should resemble the image below.
       Select Close to close the visual editor.
       Now that you’ve created the required tables, select Save on the upper-right corner to
       save the app and close the Power Apps Studio.
       Step 3: Create flows to get the video details for
       configured feeds
       In this section, you'll create flows in Power Automate to retrieve videos for each of the
       configured feeds. This flow will monitor the RSS feeds for the addition of new videos,
       retrieve details for the videos, and save those details in the database.
       When you’ve completed this section, your flow should resemble the diagram below.
       ７ Note
       Power Automate has a trigger that allows you to detect when a new item is added
       to a feed for an individual feed. When tracking multiple feeds, this would require
       multiple feeds and would require the same number of flows to match the number
       of feeds. The approach taken in this lab is more complex but with the benefit of
       having a single flow that supports any number of configured feeds in a single flow.
      Step 3.1: Create the flow
       1. Select the Build tab.
       2. From the list on the left, select the name of your team in which you created the
        tables earlier.
       3. Select See all under the Built by this Team tab.
       4. Select New.
       5. Select Flow > Scheduled.
       6. In the Build a scheduled flow dialog,
         a. Enter the name as "Retrieve Videos".
        b. Select Day as the frequency.
         c. Select Create.
      Step 3.2: Add the initialize variable action
       1. Select New step.
       2. Enter Initialize variable in the search box.
       3. Select the Initialize variable action.
       4. Enter Link to Video in the Name field.
       5. Select String in the drop-down for Type.
         ７ Note
         Don’t enter any value in the Value field.
      Step 3.3: Add the List Records action
       1. Select New Step.
       2. Enter Microsoft Dataverse in the search box and select the action named List
        records.
       3. Select Feeds in the Entity name property.
       4. Select ellipsis (…) in the header of the action and select Rename.
       5. Rename the action to Get list of feeds to retrieve.
      Step 3.4: Add the Current time action
       1. Select New Step.
       2. Enter Date Time in the search box and select the action named Current time.
      Step 3.5: Add the Apply to each action
       1. Select New Step.
       2. Enter Apply to each in the search box, and then select the action named Apply to
        each.
       3. Select the text box under Select output from previous steps.
       4. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select value.
       5. Select ellipsis (…) in the header of the action and select Rename.
       6. Rename the action to Loop through each of the feeds in the database.
      Step 3.6: Add the List all RSS Feed Items action
       1. Select Add an action.
       2. Enter RSS in the search box and select the action called List all RSS feed items.
       3. Select the box for the property The RSS feed URL.
       4. In the Dynamic content, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select Link.
       5. Select in the box for the property since and select Last Retrieved.
      Step 3.7: Add the Apply to Each Action
       1. Select Add an action.
       2. Enter Apply to each in the search box and select the action named Apply to each.
       3. Select the text box under Select output from previous steps.
       4. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section called List all RSS feed
        items, and then select body.
       5. Select ellipsis (…) in the header of the action, and then select Rename.
       6. Rename the action to Loop through each of the items in the feed since last retrieved.
      Step 3.8: Add the Apply to Each action
       1. Select Add an action inside Loop through each of the items in the feed since last
        retrieved.
       2. Enter Apply to each in the search box and select the action named Apply to each.
       3. Select the text box under Select output from previous steps.
       4. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section List all RSS feed items, and
        then select Feed links.
       5. Select ellipsis (…) in the head of the action, and then select Rename.
       6. Rename the action to Evaluate links to determine if this is YouTube or a Vlog with a
        video.
      Step 3.9: Add the Condition action
       1. Select Add an action.
       2. Enter Condition in the search box, and then select the action named Condition.
       3. Select the text box containing text Choose a value.
       4. In the Dynamic content list that is displayed, scroll down to the section called
        Evaluate links to determine if this is YouTube or a Vlog with a video, and then
        select Current item.
       5. Select the drop-down that shows is equal to, and then select contains.
       6. Select the text box text Choose a value and enter the value .mp4.
       7. Select ellipsis (…) in the header of the action, and then select Rename.
       8. Rename the action to Check to see if there is a link with an MP4 file.
       9. In the If yes path on the left, select Add an action.
         a. Enter Set variable in the search box, and then select the action named Set
          Variable.
        b. Select Link to Video in the drop-down for the Name property.
         c. Select the textbox for the Value property.
        d. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section called Evaluate links to
          determine if this is YouTube or a Vlog with a video and select Current item.
        e. Select ellipsis (…) in the header of the action, and then select Rename
         f. Rename the action to Specify the Video Link is the link to an MP4 File.
       10. In the If No path on the left, select Add an action.
         a. Enter Set variable in the search box, and then select the action named Set
          Variable.
        b. Select Video Link in the drop-down for the Name property.
         c. Select the textbox for the Value property.
        d. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section List all RSS feed items,
          and then select Primary feed link.
        e. Select ellipsis (…) in the header of the action, and then select Rename.
         f. Rename the action to Specify the Video Link is the Primary feed link.
      Select the header of the action to show the title of Evaluate links to determine if this is
      YouTube or a Vlog with a video.
      Step 3.10: Add the Create a New Record action
       1. Inside Loop through each of the items in the feed since last retrieved action, select
        Add an action.
       2. Enter Microsoft Dataverse in the search box, and then select the action called
        Create a new record.
       3. Select Feed Items in the Entity name property.
       4. In the Dynamic content list scroll down to the section List all RSS feed items, and
        then select Feed ID.
       5. Select the textbox next to Field Item ID.
       6. Select Show advanced options link in the action to display all the fields in the
        table.
       7. Select the textbox next to Description.
       8. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section called List all RSS feed
        items and select Feed summary.
       9. Select the textbox next to Feed (Feeds).
       10. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select OData Id.
       11. Select the textbox next to Primary Feed Link.
       12. In the Dynamic content list scroll down to the section List all RSS feed items, and
        then select Primary feed link.
       13. Select the textbox next to Published On.
       14. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section List all RSS feed items, and
        then select Feed published on.
       15. Select the textbox next to Title.
       16. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section List all RSS feed items, and
        then select Feed title.
       17. Select the textbox next to Video Link.
       18. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Variables, and then select
        Link to Video.
    Step 3.11: Add the Set Variable action
       1. Select Add action after Create new record.
       2. Enter Teams in the search box, and then select the Post a message (V3) (preview)
        action.
       3. In the drop-down for the Team property, select the team to send the message.
       4. In the drop-down for the Channel property, select the channel to send the
        message.
       5. Select Show advanced options link.
       6. In the Message property, create a message with details about the item. An example
        message is shown in the image below.
      Select the header of the action to show the title of Loop through each of the items
      since last retrieved.
      Step 3.12: Add the Update Record action
       1. Inside Loop through each of the feeds in the database action, select Add an action.
       2. Enter Microsoft Dataverse in the search box, and then select the action Update a
        record.
       3. Select Feeds for the Entity Name.
       4. Select textbox next to Item ID.
       5. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select Feeds.
       6. Select textbox next to Title.
       7. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select Title.
       8. Select Show advanced options link in the action to display all the fields in the
        table.
       9. Select textbox next to Description.
       10. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select Description.
       11. Select textbox next to Image Link.
       12. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select Image Link.
       13. Select textbox next to Image Title.
       14. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select Image Title.
       15. Select textbox next to Last Retrieved.
       16. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Current time and select
        Current time.
       17. Select textbox next to Link.
       18. In the Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select Link
       19. Select textbox next to Published On.
       20. In Dynamic content list, scroll down to the section Get list of feeds to retrieve,
        and then select Published On.
      Your complete flow should look like the following image:
      Step 3.13: Save the Flow
       1. From the upper-right side of the screen, select Save.
       2. Select the back arrow in the upper left.
       3. Select the flow Retrieve Videos.
       4. Select Run in the command bar.
       5. From the panel on the right side of the screen, select Run flow.
       6. Select Done.
       7. Select the refresh button in 28-day run history to show the details of the flow run.
       If the flow doesn't show as succeeded, select Run and it will display the failed action
       with any associated error message.
       Step 4: Edit the app to add the video library
       interface
       In this section, you'll create a new screen in the app that enables you and other
       members of the team to browse through videos, see the video details, and play them
       directly within Teams.
       To start editing the app:
         1. Select Power Apps from the left rail in Teams.
         2. Select the Build tab.
         3. From the left pane, select the team environment where the app is created.
         4. Under Built by this team*, select the Video Library app.
       Now create a new screen and configure the screen controls using the following steps.
       Step 4.1: Create new screen
         1. Select Tree view.
          2. Select New screen.
          3. Select Blank layout.
          4. Select + to begin adding controls to screen.
        Step 4.2: Add the header
          1. Enter Rectangle in the search box.
          2. Drag the rectangle control onto the screen.
          3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                        ﾉ
                                                          Expand table
             Property                       Value
             X                              0
             Y                              0
             Width                          1365
             Height                         60
             Color                          Purple
        Step 4.3: Add the header label
          1. Enter Label in the search box.
          2. Drag the label onto the screen.
          3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                        ﾉ
                                                          Expand table
             Property                   Value
             Text                       Video Library
             Display Mode               View
             Font size                  24
             X                          576
             Property                     Value
             Y                            0
             Width                        191
             Height                       61
             Color                        White
         Step 4.4: Add a rectangle for the Video List Header
           1. Enter Rectangle in the search box.
           2. Drag the rectangle control onto the screen.
           3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                         ﾉ
                                                           Expand table
             Property                        Value
             X                               0
             Y                               61
             Width                           1365
             Height                          58
             Color                           Purple
         Step 4.5: Add a label for the Video List Header
           1. Enter Label in the search box.
           2. Drag the label onto the screen.
           3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                         ﾉ Expand table
             Property          Value
             Text              Select a video from the list below
             Display Mode      View
             Property          Value
             Font size         14
             X                 39
             Y                 74
             Width             320
             Height            32
             Color             White
         Step 4.6: Add a Vertical Gallery
           1. Enter Vertical Gallery in the search box.
           2. Drag the label onto the screen.
           3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                          ﾉ
                                                            Expand table
             Property            Value
             Name                Video Library
             Data Source         Feed Items
             Layout              Image, title, and subtitle
             X                   0
             Y                   119
             Width               450
             Height              649
         In the tree view on the left side of the screen, there are three controls underneath the
         Video Gallery with names starting with Subtitle, Title, and Image.
       Step 4.6.1: Set the Subtitle
         1. Select the control that starts with Subtitle.
         2. Select the Text property from the property list on top-left.
         3. Update the property value to the following formula:
            Power Fx
            ThisItem.Feed.Description
       Step 4.6.2: Set the Title
         1. Select the control that starts with Title.
         2. Select the Text property from the property list on top-left.
         3. Update the property value to the following formula:
            Power Fx
            ThisItem.Feed.Title
       Step 4.6.3: Set the Image
         1. Select the control that starts with Image.
         2. Select the Text property from the property list on top-left.
         3. Update the property value to the following formula:
            Power Fx
              ThisItem.Feed.'Image Link'
         Step 4.7: Add the background for the feed item
           1. Enter Rectangle in the search box.
           2. Drag the rectangle control onto the screen.
           3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                         ﾉ
                                                           Expand table
             Property                        Value
             X                               451
             Y                               61
             Width                           915
             Height                          707
             Color                           Purple
         Step 4.8: Add the feed item title header label
           1. Enter Label in the search box.
           2. Drag the label onto the screen.
           3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                         ﾉ Expand table
             Property                         Value
             Font size                        18
             X                                466
             Y                                51
             Width                            883
             Height                           78
             Property                       Value
             Color                          White
          4. Select the Text property from the property list on top-left.
          5. Set the Text property value to the following formula:
             Power Fx
             'Video Library'.Selected.Title
        Step 4.9: Add a Video Control
          1. Enter Video in the search box.
          2. Drag the video control onto the screen.
          3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                       ﾉ Expand table
             Property                       Value
             X                              450
             Y                              129
             Width                          916
             Height                         523
          4. Select the Media property from the property list on top-left.
          5. Set the Media property value to the following formula:
             Power Fx
             'Video Library'.Selected.'Video Link'
        Step 4.10: Add the feed description HTML Text control
          1. Enter HTML text in the search box.
          2. Drag the HTML text control onto the screen.
          3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                        ﾉ
                                                          Expand table
             Property                        Value
             Font size                       14
             X                               458
             Y                               651
             Width                           908
             Height                          82
             Color                           White
          4. Select the HtmlText property from the property list on top-left.
          5. Set the HtmlText property value to the following formula:
              Power Fx
              'Video Library'.Selected.Description
        Step 4.11: Add the Published On label
          1. Enter Label in the search box.
          2. Drag the Label onto the screen.
          3. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                        ﾉ Expand table
             Property                        Value
             Font size                       14
             X                               1153
             Y                               732
             Width                           213
             Height                          36
            Property                       Value
            Color                          White
          4. Select the Text property from the property list on top-left.
          5. Set the Text property value to the following formula:
             Power Fx
             Concatenate("Published On ",Text('Video Library'.Selected.'Published 
             On'))
        Step 4.12: Enable toggle between screens
        Currently there are two separate screens, but no way to toggle between them. The
        ability to toggle between the screens will be important to enable the addition of more
        feeds.
        Step 4.12.1: Add the gear icon
          1. Select Screen2.
          2. Select Add icon from the properties pane.
          3. Select the Settings icon type.
          4. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                      ﾉ
                                                        Expand table
            Property                       Value
            X                              1307
            Y                              6
            Width                          48
            Height                         51
            Color                          White
          5. Select the OnSelect property from the property list on top-left.
          6. Set the OnSelect property value to the following formula:
                Power Fx
                Navigate(Screen1)
          Step 4.12.2: Configure the back button
            1. Select Screen1.
            2. Select Add icon from the properties pane.
            3. Select the Back icon type.
            4. Set the following properties with these values:
                                                                ﾉ Expand table
               Property                             Value
               X                                    225
               Y                                    12
               Width                                32
               Height                               32
            5. Select the OnSelect property from the property list on top-left.
            6. Set the OnSelect property value to the following formula:
                Power Fx
                Navigate(Screen2)
          When you select the gear icon, the app will now show the form to edit the list of feeds.
          Selecting the back button will return to the list of videos.
          Step 5: Test the app
          Before publishing the application to teams, it’s important to test core functionality.
          Step 5.1: Test the Power Automate Flow
            1. Run the Power Automate flow.
         2. Confirm that new items have been added to the Feed Items table.
         3. Confirm that the flow has posted new messages to the Channel you specified
          when configuring the application.
       Step 5.2: Test the app functionality
         1. Open the app in Power Apps Studio.
         2. From upper-right side of the screen, select Preview.
         3. Select the list of feed items in the gallery on the left.
         4. When you select an item, confirm that the Title, Description, Publish Date, and the
          Video details are displayed.
         5. Select the video and confirm the video plays.
       Step 5.3: Test additions to the Feeds table
         1. Add another feed to the Feeds table.
         2. Rerun the Power Automate flow.
         3. Repeat the above steps.
       Step 6: Publish the app
         1. Select the Publish to Teams icon in the upper right.
         2. Select Next.
         3. Select + next to the channel, such as Readiness to add the app to.
                 4. Select Save and close.
              See also
              Use sample app templates in Microsoft Teams
              Feedback
                                                
              Was this page helpful?     Yes        No
              Provide product feedback
     Manage your apps in Teams
     To manage an app, select Apps from the solution explorer. Then select the app that you want to
     manage, or select Commands (…) next to the app name, and then select commands from the
     drop-down menu.
      ７ Note
      The Teams experience changes frequently. If the current Teams UI or screenshots in this
      article don't match what you see, use the option names and overall flow as your guide.
     Edit an app
     Select Edit to edit the app in Power Apps Studio. More information: Edit a canvas app in Power
     Apps and Understanding Power Apps Studio
       Tip
      Use this option if you want to rename an app, or change app icon and description. For
      detailed steps, go to rename an app or change app icon and description.
     Add to Teams
     Allows you to download the app and then add it to Teams. For the current end-to-end
     experience, see Embed a canvas app as personal app in Teams and Publish your app in Teams.
     App details
     The Details option shows the owner of the app, when the app was created and last modified, app
     ID and license designation.
         Restore an app
         A canvas app can have multiple versions. You can restore an app to an available published
         version.
         To restore an app to a specific version:
            1. Select Versions from the app details screen.
            2. Select a version other than Live that you want to restore.
            3. Select      .
            4. Select Restore.
                  ７ Note
                  The restored app becomes the latest version of the app. However, the latest version is
                  not yet live. You must publish the restored version to make the restored version
                  available to all users.
            5. Select       for the restored version.
            6. Select Publish this version.
            7. Review the app preview and select Publish this version to confirm.
    The Versions tab now shows the restored version as Live:
     More information: Restore an app
     Delete an app
     Select Delete to delete an app. When prompted, select Delete from cloud to delete the app.
     For more information about deleting an app, go to Delete an app.
     Rename an app
     To rename an app:
      1. Edit the app in Power Apps Studio.
      2. Select the app name from the top-right.
      3. Update the name.
      4. Select Save.
